# FME Translations Quiz

<quiz name="">
  <question>
    <p>
      Which of the following statements is true about the Generate Workspace dialog?
    </p>
    <answer correct>You must define both the reader and writer format</answer>
    <answer>You must define the reader format, but writer format is optional</answer>
    <answer>The reader format is optional, but you must define the writer format</answer>
    <answer>Both the reader and writer formats are optional</answer>
    <explanation>Generate Workspace requires both a reader and writer format. You can use leave the Format field blank (it will show &lt;Guess from Dataset&gt;) and FME will try to guess your format. However, you must still eventually supply a value to this field. In more advanced training modules, you can learn how to set a Generic reader or writer, which can use any format FME supports.</explanation>
  </question>
  <question>
    <p>
       Visual Preview and the FME Data Inspector are fully-functioned spatial data analysis and cartography tools.
    </p>
    <answer>True</answer>
    <answer correct>False</answer>
    <explanation>Visual Preview and the FME Data Inspector are not designed to replace GIS software, but rather to provide a quick and useful way to inspect the result of FME workspaces.</explanation>
  </question>
  <question multiple>
    <p>
    Which of the following scenarios would be well-suited to using feature caching? Check all that apply.
    </p>
    <answer correct>Reading from a large database</answer>
    <answer correct>Reading from a large web dataset</answer>
    <answer>Running a production workspace</answer>
    <answer>Running a simple workspace with a Creator and a single Emailer to send an email</answer>
    <answer correct>Using partial runs to incrementally develop a workspace with a complicated workflow</answer>
    <explanation>
      <p>
        Workspaces that read large datasets or data that is slow to access, including databases or data on a network, can benefit from feature caching. Read the data once to cache it and then use Run From This or Run To This.
      </p>
      <p>
        The initial process of feature caching takes longer than running the workspace without feature caching on, so it is not a good idea to keep feature caching on with a production workspace.
      </p>
      <p>
        A very simple workspace with only one or two transformers, neither of which produce many features, will not benefit from feature caching.
      </p>
      <p>
        Using partial runs with feature caching is a great way to quickly build and test sections of your workspace.
      </p>
    </explanation>
  </question>
  <fme-desktop-basics>
    <p>
       Which of the following is an example of schema editing or mapping? Check all that apply.
    </p>
    <answer>You create a workspace that removes observations from a CSV file if they are older than a target date.</answer>
    <answer correct>You create a workspace that joins customer data from a CRM to social media exposure data gathered by your Social Media Manager.</answer>
    <answer correct>You create a workspace that adds updated AutoCAD drawings to a centralized Esri ArcGIS geodatabase, removing three unwanted attributes and renaming two others in the process.</answer>
    <answer>You create a workspace that extracts a group of records from an Oracle database based on a spatial filter.</answer>
    <explanation>Removing records (by an attribute value like observation date or spatial location) does not count as schema editing or mapping. Although the  content of the written data is changed, its structure remains the same. In the CRM example, joining data adds new attributes. In the AutoCAD example, attributes are removed or renamed. These operations are schema editing, because you are changing the structure of the final dataset.</explanation>
  </question>
  <question>
    <p>
      Why is the input port on the <code>Date</code> attribute of the writer feature type red?
    </p>
    <answer>The feature type's User Attributes tab did not appropriately define attribute parameters.</answer>
    <answer>FME is not connected to system date-time.</answer>
    <answer>The <code>Date</code> attribute on the reader feature type is not exposed.</answer>
    <answer correct>There is a <code>Date</code> attribute defined on the writer schema, but it has no value.</answer>
    <explanation>We created a <code>Date</code> attribute on the writer schema by adding it to the User Attributes tab. However, there is nowhere in the workspace - either in the read data or data created with transformers - to supply values to this attribute. Therefore, it displays with a red color.</explanation>
  </question>
</quiz>
