# Requirements for FME Workspaces #

FME Workbench is used to author and publish the workspaces used by FME Server. FME Workbench is not part of FME Server; rather, it is a part of the FME Desktop product. If you do not have access to FME Desktop, you cannot publish workspaces to FME Server, although you can still perform and test the installation.

The version of FME Workbench you use must match the FME Server version you have installed. This requirement ensures that the workspaces you author will run when published to FME Server. If you are running a FME Server version that is older that your FME Workbench, it is possible to upgrade the FME Engines used by FME Server to match your FME Workbench version. These are best kept to minor release updates and changes.  

For example, FME Desktop 2019.0.2 can publish to FME Server 2019.0.1 with 2019.0.2 Engines.  However, FME Desktop 2019.1 should NOT publish to FME Server with 2019.0 Engines.  Also FME Server 2019.0 does NOT support FME Server 2019.1 Engines.  

Web Connections allow FME Workbench to connect to FME Server using the HTTP protocol. It requires the Web Application Server port to be open to communication between the FME Workbench computer and the FME Server computer.

### Grid Shift Files ###

If you plan to run workspaces that transform data between datums NAD27 and NAD83, you can use datum shift files for Canada or the US. For information on Grid Shift Files, see the [Datums in FME Documentation](http://docs.safe.com/fme/html/FME_Desktop_Documentation/FME_Workbench/CoordSys/Datums_in_FME.htm).

### Third-Party Applications for FME ###

FME Workspaces often rely on third party applications for connecting to data sources. Examples include an Oracle client for connecting to an Oracle database and an Esri ArcGIS installation for connecting to Esri Geodatabases. For more information about Esri ArcGIS and FME Server, see the [Using FME Server with Esri ArcGIS Software](https://knowledge.safe.com/articles/24153/using-fme-server-with-esri-software.html) article. If you must install a third-party application for your FME Desktop installation, repeat that installation on your FME Server computer.

### FME Workspaces using Python ###

Python scripts in workspaces may use a different interpreter than the FME default. In this case, ensure the same Python interpreters are also available on FME Server and correctly configured.  

If any python modules have been added to the FME Desktop environment, the same modules will need to be uploaded to FME Server.  Review the *Uploading the Python Module* section located on this page [Using Python with FME Server](https://docs.safe.com/fme/html/FME_Server_Documentation/Content/AdminGuide/Using-Python-with-FME_Server.htm) in the FME Server Administrator's Guide for more information.

### Web Service Connections ###

FME Workspaces can contain Web Services Connections.  When you first publish a workspace to FME Server the web connection will be authenticated and ready to be used.  Test the connection on FME Server to be certain it is working.  Also, be aware of the any workspaces that contain web connections as they may require re-authorization/authentication from time to time.

After a workspace has been published, and the web connection uploaded as part of the workspace publish, the web connection will appear in the Web UI under *Connections>Web Connections*.  The credentials for any web connection can be updated (*authorized*) through the Web UI on the *Web Connections* page.

### Database Connections ###

FME Workspaces often connect to databases. If they are using *database connections* in the workspace, FME Workbench will publish these to FME Server. If the database connection is using database credentials, no other action is required. However, some database connections use a Windows Authentication configuration. In this case it's important to note that the "Log On As" setting of the FME Server Engine Service sets the user account under which workspaces are run.

<!--Tip Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-info-circle fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">TIP</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
When publishing workspaces with database connections to external systems, ensure the FME Server system has network connectivity to the database; and if 3rd party libraries (for example Oracle Client) are required, ensure that they have been properly configured.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

<!--Person X Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">FME Lizard says...</span>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
To perform data transformations, FME Server runs workspaces that have been created with FME Workbench.
<br>When a workspace runs on FME Server, it is referred to as a job.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
