# Scalability Considerations #

FME Server is very scalable in terms of its ability to handle fault tolerant enhancements, create new engine nodes on new machines, and increase engines on existing machines. Scaling in this way though can only be done from a distributed installation. If you start with an express installation you will have to migrate into a distributed installation to gain these scalability benefits.

Therefore, if you are considering expanding FME Server in the short term, starting with a distributed installation is a good idea.


**Scalability options from a Distributed Installation**

- Changing the database provider for FME Server
- Adding a second or more cores for fault tolerance
- Adding Engines on existing machines
- Adding Engines to new machines

**What's not supported without re-installation**

- Moving the file share.


## Adding FME Engines on a Separate Machine ##

You can add processing capacity to your FME Server by installing additional FME Engines on a separate computer from the FME Server Core.
The number of licensed FME Engines you can add is limited only by the host’s CPU and memory resources, which constrain the maximum concurrent request throughput.

The additional FME Engines can be of any architecture (32- or 64-bit) and installed to any supported operating system (Windows or Linux). They do not have to match the specifications of the FME Server Core. It is important to note that the major versions must match; for example you should not install FME Server 2019 and try to add engines from FME Server 2018.


### Keep your FME Engines Close to the data ###

One of the main reasons to add engines on a separate machine is to have an FME engine closer to the data. For example, if data is located on a server in a remote office, it makes sense to add a local engine to server to process the data. This avoids long-distance transfers and network latency. 

Another reason to add separate engines is to gain access to 3rd party formats that may not be installed on the FME Server Core system.