# Chapter Review #

This chapter introduced you to how to plan for your FME Server installation.

## What You Should Have Learned from this Module ##

**Theory**


- FME Workspaces are a part of FME Desktop, not FME Server. If you do not have access to FME Desktop, you cannot publish workspaces to FME Server, although you can still perform and test the installation.
- FME Server has multiple installation types: **Express, Distributed/Custom, Engine, and Silent**.
- A Distributed installation can be 2- or 3-tiered depending on how you want to distribute the FME Server Web Services, FME Server Application, and the FME Server Database.
- FME Server provides fault tolerance through **Recovery** and **Redundancy**.
- Component Recovery is achieved through the FME Server Process Monitor - automatically restarting components that fail.
- Job Recovery is the ability to restart a job when a crash occurs.
- Configuring for multiple cores and removing single points of failure so that a component can fail, but not take the entire system offline.
- There is a new fault-tolerant architecture which started in 2018.1 that replaces the previous modes of failover ( **Active-Passive** and **Active-Active**).
- Disaster Recovery can be incorporated into any of the architectures.
- Security updates for a stand-alone FME Server are dependent on updates to FME Server releases.
- Distributed FME Server installations allow you to maintain the security updates for your provided server components (the Web Application Server and/or the Database Server).
- FME Server can be licensed using either Online or Offline methods.

- Firewall settings should not block FME Server ports.
- FME Server utilizes multiple ports with their own important functions.
- The correct hostname allows for proper control and management of FME Engines.
- Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) allows you to specify websites hosted on other domains that can access resources from FME Server.
- CORS is enabled to Allow All Hosts by default.

**FME Skills**

- How to disable and re-enable CORS.
