# Course Overview #
This training course builds upon the basic framework of workspace creation in FME Desktop. The course covers topics that are commonly used by all workspace authors who wish to take their FME skills to the next level.


## Course Structure ##
The full course is made up of five main sections. These sections are:

- Advanced Parameter Use
- Performance Considerations
- Custom Transformers
- Advanced Reading and Writing
- Advanced Attribute Handling

## Course Length ##

The instructor may choose to cover as many of these sections as they feel are required, or possible in the time permitted. They may also cover the course content in a different order and will skip or add new content to better customize the course to your needs.

Therefore the length and content of the course may vary, particularly when delivered online.

**Safe Software** offers training in various lengths, but usually either two days or five days. Both courses cover the same content. The two-day course is held over fewer, but longer, days and is more intense. The five-day course is held over more, but shorter, days and allows a little more time to cover the content from a beginner's perspective. 


## Prerequisites ##
This training material is intended for persons with some prior experience of using FME. The content assumes a basic familiarity with the concepts and practices of FME Desktop; at least to the extent covered by the FME Desktop Basic Training.

In particular it would be helpful to be familiar with:

- FME transformers and basic transformation techniques
	- See the "Data Transformation" chapter of the Basic Training
- Managing Readers, Writers and feature types in a workspace
	- See the "Translation Components" chapter of the Basic Training
- Data filtering and attribute management techniques in FME Workbench
	- See the "Practical Transformer Use" chapter of the Basic Training


## About the Manual ##
The FME Desktop advanced training manual not only forms the basis for advanced FME Desktop training – in-person or online – but is also useful reference material for future work you may undertake with FME. It is updated for each major release of FME.

All screenshots in these materials were taken using FME on Windows Server 2016. The fonts used (especially in screenshots of the log window) may be resized or otherwise changed for improved legibility.

---

<!--Updated Section--> 

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-bolt fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">.1 UPDATE</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
The FME development cycle includes a number of follow-up releases, numbered .1, .2, etc
<br>A dialog box like this denotes features new or updated in FME2017.1, the first major update to the .0 release
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>