# Module Overview

This module provides an introduction to the concept of data integration and interoperability and contains hands-on examples of using Safe Software's FME to integrate data.

The module introduces basic concepts and terminology, help students become efficient users of FME, and direct them to resources to learn more about the product.

## Module Structure

The module is made up of three main sections. These sections are:

- Lecture
- Lab
- Scenario-based Exercise

The **Lecture** section is intended to be adapted by instructors to be taught in a classroom lecture. It covers conceptual issues of data integration and provides a high-level introduction to FME. [Slides](./fme-desktop-data-integration-slides.zip) are available.

The **Lab** section provides a walkthrough of how to use FME. It is designed to be presented by an instructor in a lab, with students either following along or independently completing the provided exercises. It is the same content as our [Introduction to FME Desktop](https://s3.amazonaws.com/gitbook/Desktop-Intro-2019/index.html) training.

Finally, the **Scenario-based Exercise** section provides a data integration scenario for students to complete during lab time or as an assignment.

[Lab questions](Integration3Scenario\3.03.LabQuestions.md) are provided; instructors may fill out [this form](https://goo.gl/forms/jWeso3OY6RVe6PJG3) to request access to answers for grading.

## Module Audience

This module is aimed at a university or college student audience. FME sees a wide range of applications in any discipline that works with data, but is most commonly used in:

- Architecture
- Construction
- Engineering
- Forestry
- Geography and Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
- Oil & Gas
- Public Administration
- Telecommunications
- Urban Planning
- Utilities

Students should be comfortable with data manipulation software in a scripted or GUI environment. Prior knowledge of FME is not required. If the instructor wishes to adapt the module to a higher level, the lecture and lab demonstration content can be shortened.

## Module Length

The module's total length is approximately four hours. The lecture is approximately half an hour. The lab contains about two hours of walkthrough and exercises. Finally, the scenario-based exercise will take about an hour to complete. The instructor may choose to cover as many of these sections as they feel are required, or possible in the time permitted. They may also cover the module content in a different order and will skip or add new content to better customize the module to their needs. Therefore, the length and content of the module may vary.

All of this content is provided for instructors to use, adapt, and remix for their own modules. Please note that this use does come with some legal caveats, explained in [About this Document](/Integration0About/0.00.AboutThisDocument.md).
