{% import "../includes/templates.html" as template %}

{{ template.exercise(2.2,
               'Basic Data Inspection',
               "3-1-1 case location details (`.xls` hosted on FTP)",
               "Inspect data",
               "Inspect data, including workspace output, feature caches, and filtering",
               "None",
               "None")
}}

<iframe width="770" height="433" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/?listType=playlist&list=PLFxZDg3GNCguPKqew9ZvqCNZCZOoiwtC5&index=3" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
_Video covering use of the FME Data Inspector_

Let’s see how the FME Data Inspector interface works by inspecting the results of the last exercise.

# 1) Start FME Data Inspector

Start the FME Data Inspector by selecting it from the Windows start menu. You’ll find it under Start > FME Desktop 2018.1 > FME Data Inspector 2018.1.

# 2) Open Dataset in FME Data Inspector

The FME Data Inspector will start up and begin with an empty view display.

To open a dataset, select File > Open Dataset or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>O</kbd> from the menubar.
When prompted, fill in the fields in the Select Dataset dialog as follows:

<table style="border: 0px">

  <tr>
    <td style="font-weight: bold">Reader Format</td>
    <td style="">CSV (Comma Separated Value)</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td style="font-weight: bold">Reader Dataset</td>
    <td style="">C:\FMEData2018\Output\Training\CA18COV1 - Service Request Loca.csv</td>
  </tr>

</table>

Click Ok and you will see a table appear in the Table View window. The main View will be blank and will say "There is no geometry in this view." This is because we have loaded tabular data with no geometry. As you will see later, if we load spatial data like a map layer, CAD drawing, or 3D model, it will be displayed here.

If you scroll through the Table View, you can see the different values of the 3-1-1 request attributes. Do you see any problems?

If you have a good eye for data problems, you might spot inconsistent naming for the values in the `Local Area` attribute. Two of the area names have some values with a hyphen in some of the values, but not all: Dunbar Southlands and Dunbar-Southlands and Arbutus Ridge and Arbutus-Ridge. Good thing we spotted this. We will clean up this inconsistency in a later exercise.

IMAGE

# 3) Add Dataset in FME Data Inspector

Using Open Dataset always displays the data in a new view in Data Inspector, shown in a tabbed interface above the View window:

IMAGE

You can also add another dataset to the open view. Let's try out this feature by adding a dataset we'll be using in a later unit: local planning areas. This dataset is a [KML file](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keyhole_Markup_Language) of polygons showing the outlines of Vancouver's local planning areas, which are designated by the city for purposes of planning and development. To add a dataset to an open view, select Open > Add Dataset (or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>D</kbd>). When prompted, fill in the fields in the Select Dataset to Add dialog as follows:

<table style="border: 0px">

  <tr>
    <td style="font-weight: bold">Reader Format</td>
    <td style="">Google KML</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td style="font-weight: bold">Reader Dataset</td>
    <td style="">C:\FMEData2018\Data\Boundaries\LocalAreas.kml</td>
  </tr>

</table>

Click Ok and you will see a new feature type appear in the Display Control window. Additionally, you will see the local area polygons appear in the View window.

# 4) Add a Background Map

The local areas currently appear without any context. Let's improve the display by adding a background map. Select Tools > FME Options > Background Map. Click the dropdown next to Background Format. You will notice that FME supports a variety of background map services. Most are require an existing account or server, but for this example let's select Stamen Maps, which we can use without an account:

IMAGE

After selecting Stamen Maps, click Parameters. Click the ellipsis button to retrieve the list of background map styles available. Select terrain and click Ok:

IMAGE

Click Ok twice to close the FME Options windows. You should see the background map appear shortly. You can use the pan and zoom tools in the Toolbar to move the view around the map.

# 5) Use Feature Caching

Let's look at one other way to open data in the Data Inspector. This method is used more often than the one we just covered, as it is more tightly connected to actions taken in FME Workbench.

While you were running your translations earlier, you may have noticed little green squares with magnifying glasses filling up on your readers, writers, and transformers:

IMAGE

These are feature caches; the features at that point of the translation are recorded in this cache and can be inspected. This is useful for two reasons:

1. It allows you to inspect the data at any point in the translation to check that your modifications are appearing as expected.
2. It cuts down on production time by allowing you to use data from caches to test portions of a workspace, rather than having to run the entire workspace each time. We call this Partial Runs. This feature is particularly important when you are working with large datasets, web-based data, or databases, which can take a long time to read.

Use Workbench to open the results of your last exercise, if it is not already open. Feature Caching is turned on by default; you can see the magnifying glass and small play button icon in the top right of your toolbar:

IMAGE

If you still had Workbench open, you should have cached features ready to inspect. If not, ensure Feature Caching is on (Run > Run with Feature Caching) and run your workspace.

Once you have a cache, click the green icon to inspect the data at that point of the translation.

IMAGE

# 6) Filter Data to Check for Missing Values

Let's use the Data Inspector's Filter tool to see if we have missing values in our data. Click the Filter icon in the toolbar:

IMAGE

This opens a window that lets us query our data to filter it. We have to fill in a Left Value, an Operator, and a Right Value, to form a logical operation. Check the box next to "Enable Filter." Then click in the Left Value cell. Click the drop-down arrow and select Case_Type:

IMAGE

Then click the `=` in the Operator cell and choose `Attribute has a value`. You can see we have many ways of querying our data here. This option will select all of the features that have values. If there are features left over, we will know there are missing or null values in our data. Your dialog should look like this:

IMAGE

Click OK. Now look in the Display Control window. You might have to drag the right side to expand it. Look at "CaseLocationsDetails_2017_XLS [XLSXR]." To the right of this feature type name is a summary of the Filter results: "(97325 pass | 20 fail)":

IMAGE

These feature counts are links; if you click them the Data Inspector will select those features (rows in the table). Click the "20." The Table View will show the first selected record. A ha! It turns out there are two rows of missing data in between each month of records. You can verify this by scrolling down to find the gaps between each month (where the `Month` attribute changes from `1` to `2`, `2` to `3`, etc.).

We will remove these missing values using transformers in the next unit.

{% call template.congrats() %}

<ul>
  <li>Open datasets in a new view in the FME Data Inspector</li>
  <li>Add datasets in the open view in the FME Data Inspector</li>
  <li>Add a background map in the FME Data Inspector</li>
  <li>Use FME Workbench feature caching to open a dataset in the FME Data Inspector</li>
  <li>Filter data in the FME Data Inspector</li>
</ul>

{% endcall %}
