# FME Translations Quiz

<quiz name="">
  <question>
    <p>
      Which of the following statements is true about the Generate workspace dialog?
    </p>
    <answer correct>You must define both the reader and writer format</answer>
    <answer>You must define the reader format, but writer format is optional</answer>
    <answer>The reader format is optional but you must define the writer format</answer>
    <answer>Both the reader and writer formats are optional</answer>
    <explanation>Generate Workspace requires both a reader and writer format. In more advanced training modules, you can learn how to set a Generic reader or writer, which can read in any format FME supports. However, you still need to specify which format to read and write, even if it is generic.</explanation>
  </question>
  <question multiple>
    <p>
       Which of the following is an example of schema editing and/or mapping (check all that apply)?
    </p>
    <answer>You create a workspace that removes observations from a CSV file if they are older than a target date.</answer>
    <answer correct>You create a workspace that joins customer data from a CRM to social media exposure data gathered by your Social Media Manager.</answer>
    <answer correct>You create a workspace that adds updated AutoCAD drawings to a centralized Esri ArcGIS geodatabase, removing three unwanted attributes and renaming two others in the process.</answer>
    <answer>You create a workspace that extracts a group of records from an Oracle database based on a spatial filter.</answer>
    <explanation>Removing records (by an attribute value like observation date or spatial location) does not count as schema editing or mapping. Although the  content of the written data is changed, its structure remains the same. In the CRM example, joining data adds new attributes. In the AutoCAD example, attributes are removed or renamed. These operations are schema editing, because you are changing the structure of the final dataset.</explanation>
  </question>
  <question>
    <p>
       The FME Data Inspector is a full-functioned GIS.
    </p>
    <answer correct>True</answer>
    <answer>False</answer>
    <explanation>The FME Data Inspector is not designed to replace a GIS, but rather to provide a quick and useful way to inspect the result of FME translations.</explanation>
  </question>
</quiz>
