In this workspace a colleague is trying to write out a list of parks to a Geodatabase dataset. It’s important to them that the parks are in alphabetical order – according to their name – and that features with no park names are written as null and appear last in the dataset.

However, the workspace they have does not seem to be doing what they need. The parks are sorted alphabetically, but un-named parks always appear first.

**1)** Start Workbench

Open the workspace C:\FMEData2015\Workspaces\DesktopAdvanced\Exercise5d-Begin.fmw

Inspect the source dataset by right-clicking the source feature type and choosing Inspect.

In the Data Inspector examine the data in the Table View window. You’ll see that the data is in
order of ID, not name and that there are <missing> values scattered throughout.

**2)** Add NullAttributeMapper

Add a NullAttributeMapper transformer prior to the Sorter transformer.

Open the parameters dialog.

Ensure “Map” is set to Selected Attributes, and choose the attribute ParkName.

Underneath that is a section of what to map to.

We know the values in here are currently listed as <missing> so set the “If Attribute Value Is” parameter to Missing (Selected Attributes Only)

We want to map these to a value that will appear at the bottom of any alphabetically sorted list, so change “Map To” to New Value and enter ZZZZ as the new value.
Click OK to close the dialog.

**3)** Add NullAttributeMapper

Now add a second NullAttributeMapper; this time it should be connected after the Sorter.

Open the dialog and, once again, ensure “Map” is set to Selected Attributes and select the ParkName attribute. Then turn the ZZZZ values back to nulls.

Technically we could just turn them back into <missing>; the Geodatabase Writer will write them out as nulls. However, assuming we didn’t know that, null is the safer option and bound to give us what we want.

**4)** Save and Run Workspace

Save the workspace and then run it. Inspect the output. This time the data should be sorted by ParkName, but with all null values at the end of the dataset: