The Engineering department at the City of Interopolis has invested in FME Server and is now creating a KML dashboard to provide access to the information FME Server provides.

In this workspace they translate a DWG dataset of traffic signals to KML. The KML output will contain a URL that points to a workspace on FME Server. When the URL hyperlink is clicked it will cause a workspace to run and FME Server to return information about the traffic signal.

Today, however, your task is not to work on the Server workspace; rather it is to help create the hyperlink that points to that workspace.

**1)** Inspect Source Data

Inspect the source data for the workspace. You can find it at:

Format Autodesk AutoCAD DWG/DXF
Dataset C:\FMEData2015\Data\Engineering\TrafficSignals.dwg

When reading this data it’s preferable to set the parameter Group Entities By to ‘Attribute Schema.’

Notice how each traffic signal is represented by a point feature with a text object that specifies the ID number for the signal:

**2) **Start Workbench

Open the workspace C:\FMEData2015\Workspaces\DesktopAdvanced\Exercise5a-Begin.fmw.

The first part of the workspace concerns getting the ID number from the text label and onto the point feature. It’s not our main point of concern, so we can pretty much ignore this part:

The part of the workspace that does concern us is the last four transformers:

Inspect each transformer in turn, examining what it does and what parameters are set.

You should quickly see that this section is constructing a hyperlink that points to FME Server. From what we’ve learned about integrated attribute construction, we know that it should be possible to improve upon this design.

**3)** Place AttributeCreator

Place an AttributeCreator transformer with a parallel connection out of the NeighborFinder matched port.

It’s important to ensure it is connected in to the current flow of data, else no attributes will be available.

Open the parameters dialog. For attribute name enter SignalURL (to match the output schema).

Under Value, click the drop-down menu arrow and choose the option Open Text Editor:

**4)** Create Attribute Value

In the expression dialog enter the text:

http://interopolis.org/fmedatastreaming/Engineering/signalinfo.fmw?signalid=

If it’s easier, this can simply be copied from the existing StringConcatenator transformer; although it doesn’t really matter if you get it wrong because it’s just an exercise(!)

Now we need a function to replace the SubstringExtractor transformer. In the left-hand set of menus, click on String Functions to expand the list of available functions.

Locate the substring function and double-click it to insert it into the expression.

The expression will now look like this, with the <STRING> part pre-selected:

The string we want to process is the value of the attribute fme_text_string. So, in the left-hand set of menus, click on FME Feature Attributes to expand the list of available attributes.

Locate the attribute fme_text_string and double-click it to insert it into the expression.

The latter part of the expression now looks like this, with the attribute filled in:

The values of the two <INT> fields are the same as used in the SubstringExtractor transformer. In this case the values are 4 (the fifth character in) and -1 (the end of the string).

So, manually select each <INT> in turn and replace them with 4 and -1. The expression now looks like this:

On the end of the expression, manually type &username=

And, finally, in the left-hand menus click on Published Parameters to expand the list of available parameters.

Double-click on Username to insert that user parameter into the expression:

The last part of the expression now looks like this:

Notice how attributes are denoted by an @Value() function, whereas parameters are denoted as $(<parametername>)

Click OK to close the dialog, and then OK again to close the main AttributeCreator dialog.

**5)** Clean Workspace

Now clean up the workspace by connecting the newly created AttributeCreator to the output feature type, and deleting the other four transformers that already existed.

Add a little annotation to denote that this transformer now creates the URL:

Save and run the workspace to confirm that it does still work correctly.

Compare the original workspace to the new one. Is one “better” than the other? If so, why?

What are the advantages and disadvantages of each workspace?
