# FME Workbench and FME Server

FME Workbench is the authoring environment for FME Server translations. It has functionality specifically for FME Server.

## FME Desktop as an FME Server Authoring Tool ##

FME Server can be called a model-driven architecture, because the specification for a translation is expressed as a model. In FME, these models are better known as **workspaces**.

Workspaces are created – we call it “authored” – using FME Desktop. In particular, the **FME Workbench** application is used. FME Workbench is a client of FME Server, and so they form a client-server pair. However, both share the same core engine and process data the same way.

---

<!--Person X Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Police-Chief Webb-Mapp says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
Hello, hello, hello. I'm the police chief, responsible for guiding you through this chapter - and for tracking down crimes against FME. 
<br><br>So, let's make sure you get the terminology right. The application itself is called FME “Workbench”, but the process defined in the canvas window is called a “Workspace”. The terms are so similar that they are easily confused, but please don't, otherwise I will have to send my grammar squad to arrest you! 
<br><br>Although mistreating FME terminology is a minor offence the ignominy of being caught is long lasting!

</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## The Workspace Authoring Workflow ##

The four basic steps to creating and using a workspace on FME Server are:

- Author the workspace in FME Workbench
- Publish the workspace from FME Workbench to FME Server
- Run the workspace on FME Server
- Maintain the workspace by downloading it from FME Server, making any required updates in FME Workbench, and re-publishing it back to FME Server.


<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Police Chief Webb-Mapp says…</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
Be aware that FME Workbench is part of the FME Desktop product and is not included as part of FME Server.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>