# Troubleshooting for Administrators

This section shows a few basic troubleshooting techniques in case of emergency

## FME Workbench-FME Server Connection ##

If you are unable to connect from FME Workbench to FME Server then the following suggestions may be of help.

- Check if there is a firewall running on either your computer or the FME Server. If so, you must open port 7071 to use Direct Connection or port 80 (or 8080) to use the Web Connection.

- Restart the FME Server Services. On Windows, go to Start &gt; Programs &gt; FME Server &gt; Windows Service &gt; right-click Restart and select Run as administrator.


## Web User Interface ##

If you are unable to access the Web User Interface then the following suggestions may be of help.

- Confirm that FME Server is installed and running! The easiest way to be sure is to restart FME Server using Start &gt; Programs &gt; FME Server &gt; Windows Service &gt; Restart

- Check whether FME Server was installed using an application server port other than 80. For example, if port 80 was already being used the installer might have used a different port; 8080 is most common. To check, try entering the URL with this syntax http://&lt;host&gt;:&lt;port&gt;/fmeserver - for example http://localhost:8080/fmeserver


## Workspaces are Queued but not Run ##

If a workspace appears in the FME Server queue, but is never executed, then it may be because no engines are running.

- Check the Web Interface (Manage &gt; Engine Management) to confirm engine status.
If no engines are available check licensing and update as necessary. Restart FME Server once a proper licence is in place.


## Workspaces Fail when Run ##

If a workspace fails when it is being run, then the following suggestions may help 

- Run the workspace first on FME Desktop. If it does not work there, it will not work on FME Server.

- Check the FME log file using Manage &gt; Jobs &gt; Completed in the Web Interface. This may help to explain why there is a problem.


## Scheduling ##

If a scheduled workspace appears to have not been run at the expected time, then the following suggestions may be of help.

- Ensure an engine is available, and that the scheduled job is not in a queue.

- Check the date and time very carefully to ensure the correct values were entered

- Check the timezone is correct. The web interface operates on local timezone, which is not necessarily the same timezone as the server is physically located.
