## Security Policies ##

There are various sections of security policies that can be set for each role.

### General ###

These are general policies such as the ability to manage jobs, services, and security. For example, if you don’t have the ability to manage security, that item will be missing from the main menu of the user interface.

### Topics ###

Topics are related to Notifications, which we’ll cover later. Different capabilities – read, write, publish, remove – can be assigned for each topic you create.

### Resources ###

Resources are files and datasets stored on FME Server. Different permissions – read, write, upload, delete – can be assigned to each resource.

### Services ###

Services are key items of functionality on FME Server. They are the different methods by which a workspace can be run and output data delivered. Each role can be allowed – or not – to use a particular service.

### Repositories ###

As you know, repositories are a place to store and categorize workspaces. Each role can be given different permissions for each and every repository.

### Components ###

Components are different pieces of workspace functionality – Readers, Writers, and Transformers – that can be controlled through security settings.

For example, you may wish to prevent a particular role from running workspaces on Server using the FMEServerJobSubmitter transformer.

### Applications ###

Applications are the different ways in which FME Server can be accessed. For example, it’s possible to control access to the FME Server Web Interface for a specific role.

---

## Other Security Functions ##

FME Security can be fully integrated with both Active Directory and Integrated Windows Authentication (IWA). The FME Server Administrators Guide explains how this can be achieved.

### Encryption ###

FME Server also allows Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) connections in order to encrypt transaction data. This is most important for ensuring sensitive log in information is not exposed and is particularly important when you are using Active Directory.

Again, the FME Server Administrators Guide explains the steps needed to implement this. In brief the process consists of two steps:

- Modify web service URLs to use HTTPS instead of HTTP
- Enable SSL on the web and/or application server.

---

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Police Chief Webb-Mapp says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
I am the law! The FMESuperUser role is the high court of FME Server and is granted all permissions on all security settings. What’s more, these permissions cannot be revoked, unset, or appealed against!
<br><br>So, be sure not to assign accounts to the FMESuperUser role unless you really, really mean for them to be given that degree of power!
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

<!--Person X Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Miss Vector says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
If I want one user to have a higher level of access to other users in the same role (say I wish to let an FME author be able to manage engines) what must I do?
<br><br>1. Simply select that user from the user list and set the manage engine policy to yes
<br>2. Promote that role to superuser status so that the user has a higher level of security
<br>3. Create a new role with manage engines = yes and move that user to it
<br>4. Create a new role with manage engines = yes and add that user to it as well as the original role
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
