# Scalability and Performance #

FME Server can be expanded easily to fit the growing needs of any organization. You can expand the processing ability without installing new software by ading more engines to an existing engine server or by controlling jobs intelligently with Job Queues and Job Priority

## Job Queues ##

Job Queues are a mechanism for sending jobs to a specific FME Engine. Job Queues can be assigned to multiple engines and help prioritize jobs. Job Priority is now set on the Job Queue. Then when running a job, a Job Queue can be assigned to it, which the job will then run on assigned engines with the specified Job Priority. To learn more, see Job Queues.

Often creating useful job queues can help utilize FME Server to it's fullest, however, Job Queues can also play a large role in organizations looking to scale up. Through this mechanism you can have different departments using specific engines without needing to interfere in any other departments resources.

## Job Priority ##

ME Server also offers the ability to set the job priority using the "priority" directive (or "tm_priority" using the API, Web Services, or Console). Any jobs sent with a priority tag can be moved higher in the job queue. To learn more, see Transformation Manager Directives.

##  Adding Engines to an existing engine machine ##

As long as you have the hardware to increase job



## Adding Engines to a new machine ##


## Web Server ##

FME Server’s Web Application Server can process in excess of 100,000 HTTP requests per hour. In environments where an extremely large number of requests are expected, it is recommended to keep things simple by using the single Web Application Server. The FME Engines will remain the bottleneck as even the FME Server core will have no issues with the high number of requests. We believe there is no added benefit for additional FME Server Web Applications.
