# Adding Shared Resources #

The Resources page is a convenient way to store and access the following:

- FME Server backup files.
- HTML reports generated for Dashboards.
- Data files that can be shared between different workspaces that are run from FME Server, regardless of repository.
- FME Engine Resources, including custom formats, custom transformers, custom coordinate systems, and custom Java and Python modules, that can be shared between different workspaces that are run from FME Server.
- FME Server log files.
- Connections to your own network resources and Amazon Web Services (AWS) S3 buckets.
- Temporary files created by FME Server.

### Uploading Files and Folders ###

1. To overwrite existing files with the same names as those being uploaded, select *Overwrite Existing Files*.
2. Select *Upload* and specify whether to upload an entire folder, or specific files. Alternatively, drag and drop a file or folder on to the page.

### Sharing Resources ###

To share a resource, click the *Share with Others* icon. Through sharing, you can grant levels of permissions on an item to other users. You can share an item if you own it, or if you are a user with Manage Security permissions, such as an administrator. 

---

<!--Miss Vector Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Miss Vector says...</span>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
How would you allow other users to access shared resources?
<br><br>1. Grant permissions to specific users.
<br>2. Grant permissions to a role.
<br>3. Tag a user you want to share the resources with when you upload the file(s).

</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---