# Web Connections #

The *Web Connections* page lists the web connections you have uploaded to FME Server along with workspaces.

Many workspaces that are run from FME Server require you to connect and authenticate to a web service. For example, a workspace that contains an **HTTPCaller** transformer may require you to authenticate to a web service, such as Google Fusion Tables, by providing your username and password.

FME Server allows you to securely store and reference the authentication parameters to these web services as self-contained objects, in the same manner as they can be stored in FME Workbench. When you run a workspace from FME Server that requires a web connection, the credentials associated with the stored connection are also referenced, so you do not have to re-enter them.

### Adding Web Connections ###

There are two ways to add web connections:

1. **From FME Workbench**: When you upload a workspace that contains a web connection to FME Server, you can specify whether to upload the connection along with the workspace. If you choose to upload the connection, it is added to this page.

1. **On the *Web Connections* page**: Click *New*. Or, check the box beside an existing connection and click *Duplicate*. On the Create (or Duplicate) Web Connection page, provide a name for the connection and specify the type of service. Provide the remaining connection and authentication parameters, depending on type. Click *OK*.

_Note: You can only add web connections for services to which FME Server is already registered. See 'Managing Web Services' below._

### Using Web Connections ###

To use a web connection, it must be authorized with the web service it references. Workspaces that are uploaded from FME Desktop can run with the authorization credentials provided with the upload, as long as the access token from the web service is still valid. If the access token becomes invalid or cannot be refreshed with the web service, you must authorize the web connection directly with FME Server. Alternatively, republish the workspace from FME Desktop.

**To authorize a web connection with FME Server**

1. If not already completed, configure the web service definition with FME Server. For more information, see Managing Web Services, below.
2. Authorize the connection:
    a. Click on the connection to open it.
    b. On the Edit page, click *Authorize*.


### Managing Web Connections ###

When you upload a workspace from FME Desktop that contains a web connection, a reference to the associated web service is also uploaded. To see the services that are uploaded, click *Manage Web Services*. The *Web Services* page opens. (To remove a web service from this page, select and click *Remove*).

In most cases, FME Server populates your web service credentials from the web connection information uploaded from FME Desktop. These credentials are enough to run workspaces, as long as the web service access token is valid. If the access token is no longer valid or cannot be refreshed, you must complete the web service configuration in order to authorize the connection directly with FME Server.

<!--To use the web services your connections reference, they must be registered with FME Server. There are two ways for this registration to occur:-->
**To configure a web service definition in FME  Server**
1. Click *Manage Web Services*.
2. On the *Web Services* page, click on the web service you want to edit.
3. On the *Editing Web Services* page, specify the service parameters. For most web services, you must provide authorization and connection credentials:

**Tip:** For information about creating an app, retrieving the app credentials, and setting the redirect URI, click the link beside External Help Links.

- **Client ID and Client Secret (OAuth2) or Consumer Key and Consumer Secret (OAuth1)**: Credentials associated with an app. You must create an app in the web service and then retrieve the credentials for that app.
- **Redirect URI (OAuth2) or Callback URL (OAuth1)**: A web address that resolves to the location of the fmeoauth web application. If your FME Server is completely installed in the public domain, such as on FME Cloud, the Redirect URI will have been set correctly when the web service was published. If FME Server is on-premises, you will likely need to change the URI. You must set the correct Redirect URI in the app you have created.
    + If your FME Server is configured to access web services through an entry in a public DNS service, use the Redirect URI generated from the service.
    + If your FME Server is configured to access web services through a DMZ, use the Redirect URI https://&lt;host&gt;:&lt;port&gt;/fmeoauth for the custom installation of the fmeoauth web service on the public machine.

4. Click *OK*.

### Removing Web Connections ###

Check the box beside one or more connections you want to remove, and click *Remove*. In the confirmation dialog, click *OK*.
