# Course Overview #

This training material covers how to create FME translation models for use on FME Server.

The training will introduce basic concepts and terminology, help you become an efficient FME Server user, and direct you to resources to help apply the product to your own needs.

## Course Structure ##

The full course is made up of five main sections. These sections are:

- Introduction to FME Server
- Data Handling and FME Server
- Self-Serve Basics
- Real-Time with FME Server
- Self-Serve with Parameters
- Advanced FME Server Workflows


The instructor may choose to cover as many of these sections as they feel are required, or possible in the time permitted. They may also cover the course content in a different order and will skip or add new content to better customize the course to your needs.

Therefore the length and content of the course may vary, particularly when delivered online.


## Prerequisites ##

This training material is intended for persons with some prior experience of using FME. It assumes a basic familiarity with the concepts and practices covered of FME Desktop; at the very least to the extent covered by the FME Desktop Tutorial.

In particular it would be helpful to be familiar with:

- Parameters and published parameters
- Managing Readers, Writers and feature types in a workspace
- Using transformers similar in complexity to the Clipper and Joiner

---
<!--Person X Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Ms Analyst says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
A further prerequisite for carrying out some exercises in the Real Time section is an email account that can be accessed through IMAP, for example a Google Gmail account. If you don't have one of these, please set one up before getting to that section of the manual.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## About the Manual ##
The FME Server authoring training manual not only forms the basis for FME Server training – in-person or online – but is also useful reference material for future work you may undertake with FME.

Each chapter has a short appendix with troubleshooting suggestions; general hints to follow in case FME Server causes problems for you.

This training material is designed specifically for use with FME 2018. You may not have some of the functionality described if you use an older version of FME.
