# Course Resources #
A number of sample datasets and workspaces will be used in this course.

## On Your Training Computer ##

The following applications may already be installed, licensed, and located on your training computer (real or virtual):

- Apache Tomcat
- FME Desktop Version 2019
- FME Server Version 2019
- Microsoft SQL Server


The data used in this training course is based on open data from the City of Vancouver, Canada.

Most exercises ask you to assume the role of a city planner at the fictional city of Interopolis and to solve a particular problem using this data.

Whether it's a local computer or a virtual computer hosted in the cloud, you'll find resources for the examples and exercises in the manual at the following locations:

<table>

<tr>
<th>Location</th>
<th>Resource</th>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>C:\FMEData2019\Data</td>
<td>Datasets used by the City of Interopolis</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>C:\FMEData2019\Resources</td>
<td>Other resources used in the training</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>C:\FMEData2019\Workspaces</td>
<td>Workspaces used in the student exercises</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>C:\FMEData2019\Output</td>
<td>The location in which to write exercise output</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>&lt;Documents&gt;\FME\Workspaces</td>
<td>The default location to save FME workspaces</td>
</tr>

</table>

You should also find a digital copy of this manual.

Please alert your instructor if any item is missing from your setup.

You can find the latest version of FME Desktop and FME Server for Windows, Mac, and Linux - together with the latest Beta versions - on the [Safe Software web site](https://www.safe.com/support/support-resources/fme-downloads/ "Downloads Page").


## Course Etiquette ##
For online courses, please consider other students and test your virtual machine connection *before* the course starts. The instructor cannot help debug connection problems during the course!

For live courses, please respect other students’ needs by keeping noise to a minimum when using a mobile phone or checking e-mail.
