# Exercise 1

{% import "../includes/templates.html" as template %}

{{ template.exercise(1,
               "Adding a Transformer",
               "3-1-1 case location details (`.xls` hosted on FTP)",
               "Add a transformer to filter out missing values",
               "Adding a transformer, setting transformer parameters, filtering",
               "None",
               "C:\FMEData2018\Workspaces\DesktopBasic\Basics-Ex2-Complete.fmw")
}}

<iframe width="770" height="433" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/?listType=playlist&list=PLFxZDg3GNCguPKqew9ZvqCNZCZOoiwtC5&index=2" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
_Video covering adding transformers_

We now know from the last exercise that we have missing values in our data. We can use a filtering transformer to remove features with missing values, which will then let our `Date` attribute calculate properly.

## 1) Add Transformer

Click on the feature connection from reader to writer feature type:

IMAGE

Start to type the phrase "Tester." When the list is short enough for you to see the Tester, select it from the dialog (double-click on it):

IMAGE

Doing so will place an Tester transformer:

IMAGE

Notice that the Passed output port is the one connected by default.

## 2) Set Parameters

Inspect the parameters for the Tester transformer (either its dialog or in the Parameter Editor window). Click in the Left Value field and from there click the down arrow and choose Attribute Value > `Day`:

IMAGE

For the Operator field click the cell and select "Attribute Has a Value." We do not need to fill in the Right Value field for this operator.

IMAGE

Now, we know from inspecting the data that the missing values were entire empty rows. However, if you browse through the data again, you will notice that some attributes have scattered missing values. Let's guard against those coming to bother us in the future by removing features missing values in **any** attribute we might want to use.

To do this, we can copy the existing statement and change the attribute name. Click in the Left Value cell with `Day`. This action will select this row. Then click the Copy button located in the bottom left of the Test Clauses table:

This will copy this row to the clipboard. Next, click in the empty Left Value cell below and click the Paste button. This will duplicate the first row. Change the attribute value to `Department`. Repeat this procedure for the following attributes:

- `Hour`
- `Local_Area`
- `Minute`
- `Month`
- `Year`

Your Test Clauses table should look like this:

IMAGE

{% call template.tip() %}

This clipboard works across transformers, so keep it in mind if you ever need to perform a similar operation.

{% endcall %}

Click OK to accept the values and close the dialog.

## 3) Run the Workspace using Feature Caching

Now that you know how to use Feature Caching, we can use it to test our new transformer. Select the AttributeManager transformer. Then click the "Run To This" icon:

IMAGE

Your workspace will run. If you set up the Tester properly, it should do so without errors! If you pay attention while the translation is running, you can see the feature counts increasing as features flow through the workspace. Note that by the time the translation is complete, 20 features will be filtered out to the Tester's Failed port. These features had missing values and are removed from the rest of the translation.

Now, inspect the data in the AttributeManager transformer by clicking the green icon on its Output port.

## 4) Inspect the Data

The data will open in Data Inspector. Look in the Table View window to see it. You can see that the underscores have been removed from attribute names and the `Date` attribute now correctly displays the full date/time in FME standard format:

IMAGE

Congratulations!
