# Exercise 3.2b

{% import "../includes/templates.html" as template %}

{{ template.exercise(3.2b,
               "Locating Transformers",
               "3-1-1 case location details (`.xls` hosted on FTP)",
               "Find a transformer to deal with inconsistent data",
               "Using Transformer Gallery and Quick Add",
               "None",
               "C:\FMEData2018\Workspaces\DesktopBasic\Basics-Ex2-Complete.fmw")
}}

Did you find a transformer that worked? Congratulations!

## Answer

We can address this issue with the AttributeValueMapper. Add one to the canvas between the AttributeManager and the AttributePivoter; we want this transformer to fix the attribute values before they enter the AttributePivoter:

IMAGE

Once it is added, double-click it to open its parameters. This transformer allows you to supply a series of Source Values and Destination Values. The source values in the incoming data are replaced by any matching destination values, or otherwise receive a default value. Fill in the parameters like this:

|Parameter|Value|
|-|-|
|Source Attribute|`Local Area`|
|Destination Attribute|`Local Area`|
|Default Value|`Local Area`|
|Mapping Direction|Forward (Source to Destination)|

|Source Value|Destination Value|
|-|-|
|Arbutus Ridge|Arbutus-Ridge|
|Dunbar Southlands|Dunbar-Southlands|

We will replace any values with a space to those with a dash - this fits the [City of Vancouver specification](https://data.vancouver.ca/datacatalogue/localAreaBoundary.htm).

Note that by providing an attribute to Default Value, if `Local Area` for a feature doesn't equal one of the Source Values, it will simply keep the value it already had.

## Other Solutions

You might have found another way to solve this problem. Here are a few possibilities:

- An AttributeManager with Conditional Values
- An AttributeCreator with Conditional Values
- A TestFilter and AttributeCreators
- Testers and AttributeCreators

Did you find another way? Congratulations! Let us know at [train@safe.com](mailto:train@safe.com).

{% call template.congrats() %}

<ul>
  <li>Search for a transformer using the Transformer Gallery (in Workbench and online), the FME Transformer Reference Guide, and/or Quick Add.</li>
  <li>Use a AttributeValueMapper to fix inconsistent data values</li>
</ul>

{% endcall %}
