# Exercise 3.3

<!-- With common transformers: Attributes, Calculations, Filtering, Joining, Spatial -->

{% import "../includes/templates.html" as template %}

{{ template.exercise(3.3,
               "Using Common Transformers",
               "3-1-1 case location details (`.xls` hosted on FTP)",
               "Add a transformer to clean up schema, create a summary table",
               "Common transformer procedures",
               "None",
               "C:\FMEData2018\Workspaces\DesktopBasic\Basics-Ex2-Complete.fmw")
}}

Your manager has some more requests for your workspace. The department wants to be able to provide a summary of the number of cases by department, by Local Planning Area. This summary table will help the city assess demand for different services in different areas of the city. In this exercise we will use some attribute transformers to generate a summary table.

CHANGE TO StatisticsCalculator

## 1) Add an AttributePivoter

Add an AttributePivoter to your workspace between the Tester and the AttributeManager. The AttributePivoter takes incoming features and generates a [pivot table](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pivot_table) summarizing the incoming features in some way. It is similar to the StatisticsCalculator transformer, which gets used slightly more often. However, the StatisticsCalculator does not restructure the entire table of features, so it is not used here.

Your manager has asked for a summary of the number of cases by department, by local area. We will fill in the AttributePivoter parameters to get this information:

|Parameter|Value|
|-|-|
|Group Rows By|`Local Area`|
|Group Columns By|`Department`|
|Attributes to Analyze|`Department`|
|Pivot Summary Statistic Types|Count|
|Row Group Summary Line Descriptor|Total|

With these parameters, the transformer will produce a table with a row for each Local Area, columns for each Department, and cells with the summed count of the individual cases for the department, in that local area. As we'll see in a moment, the output will not look exactly like that at first, but with one more transformer we can get our data in the shape we want.

Once your parameters look like the above, click Ok and use "Run To Here" to pivot your data.

## 2) Inspect the Cache

Let's inspect the cache to ensure our data looks like we want it to. Click on the green inspect cache icon on the Data output port of the AttributePivoter.

As mentioned above, the table doesn't look exactly as we expect. One obvious issue stands out, however. It looks like the original data has an inconsistent schema. `Local Area` has two Local Areas that are named inconsistently:

IMAGE?

- Arbutus Ridge or Arbutus-Ridge
- Dunbar Southlands or

Before we go any further, let's fix this issue.

## 3) Add an AttributeValueMapper

We can address this issue with the AttributeValueMapper. Add one to the canvas between the AttributeManager and the AttributePivoter; we want this transformer to fix the attribute values before they enter the AttributePivoter:

IMAGE

Once it is added, double-click it to open its parameters. This transformer allows you to supply a series of Source Values and Destination Values. The source values in the incoming data are replaced by any matching destination values, or otherwise receive a default value. Fill in the parameters like this:

|Parameter|Value|
|-|-|
|Source Attribute|`Local Area`|
|Destination Attribute|`Local Area`|
|Default Value|`Local Area`|
|Mapping Direction|Forward (Source to Destination)|

|Source Value|Destination Value|
|-|-|
|Arbutus Ridge|Arbutus-Ridge|
|Dunbar Southlands|Dunbar-Southlands|

We will replace any values with a space to those with a dash - this fits the [City of Vancouver specification](https://data.vancouver.ca/datacatalogue/localAreaBoundary.htm).

Note that by providing an attribute to Default Value, if `Local Area` for a feature doesn't equal one of the Source Values, it will simply keep the value it already had.

## 4) Add an AttributeExposer
