<!-- With common transformers: Attributes, Calculations, Filtering, Joining, Spatial -->

{% import "../includes/templates.html" as template %}

{{ template.exercise(3.3,
               "Using Common Transformers",
               "3-1-1 case location details (<code>.xls</code> hosted on FTP)",
               "Add a transformer to clean up schema<br>Create a summary table",
               "Common transformer procedures",
               "None",
               "C:\\FMEData2018\\Workspaces\\DesktopBasic\\Basics-Ex2-Complete.fmw")
}}

Your manager has some more requests for your workspace. The department wants to be able to provide a summary of the number of cases by department, by Local Planning Area, in addition to the original data with an edited schema. This summary table will help the city assess demand for different services in different areas of the city. In this exercise we will use some attribute transformers to generate a summary table.

# 1) Start Workbench

Start Workbench (if necessary) and open the workspace from Exercise 3.2b. Alternatively you can open [WORKSPACE].

# 2) Add an StatisticsCalculator

Add an StatisticsCalculator to your workspace between the AttributeValueMapper and the writer feature type. The StatisticsCalculator takes incoming features and generates desired summary statistics, e.g. takes the mean (average) of a numeric attribute.

Your manager has asked for a summary of the number of cases by department, by local area. We will fill in the StatisticsCalculator parameters to get this information:

|Parameter|Value|
|-|-|
|Group By|`Department` and `Local Area`|
|Attributes to Analyze|`Case Type`|
|Total Count Attribute|`Cases`|

Additionally, make sure you remove the values from all the other Calculated Attributes (Minimum Attribute, Maximum Attribute, etc.). You can do this by selecting the parameter and deleting it with the <kbd>Delete</kbd> or <kbd>Backspace</kbd> key, or by clicking the dropdown arrow and selecting Clear Value:

IMAGE

When finished, your parameters should look like this:

IMAGE

With these parameters, the transformer will add an attribute, `Cases`, to your data, which sums the total number of 3-1-1 requests for each city department, for each local planning area.

<!-- explain group-by -->

Click Ok and use "Run To Here" on the writer feature type to summarize your data.

# 3) Inspect the Cache

Let's inspect the cache to ensure our data looks like we want it to. Click on the green inspect cache icon on the Summary output port of the StatisticsCalculator. The StatisticsCalculator illustrates that transformers vary in the number of input and output ports they have. Here the Summary port outputs a summary table of the results, essentially resulting in a new stream of features (here, 342), while the Complete and Cumulative ports add the results of the summary to every incoming feature (here, 97,325).

In the Data Inspector, you should see this in the Table View:

IMAGE

This is a good start, but now that our data's schema has changed, we have extra attributes. We can add another CSV writer with a different schema to address that.

# 4) Duplicate the CSV Writer Feature Type

Because your manager wants both the original data with a new schema and the summary table, we need two CSV writer feature types. Right-click the 311-requests feature type and click Duplicate. Move this new feature type (called 311-requests-00 by default) down on the canvas. You can mouse over the right side of any object on the canvas to bring up an expand arrow icon. Do this for your writer feature types and double-click to expand them so their full names are visible:

IMAGE

Now we need to edit the summary feature type's schema. Double-click your 311-requests feature type to open its parameters. Change CSV File Name to 311-requests-summary:

IMAGE

Then, click on the User Parameters tab. We _could_ manually remove the attributes we don't need. However, there is a faster way. Because we simply want our feature type to acccept the parameters coming out of the StatisticsCalculator Summary port, we can change the Attribute Definition method from Manual to Automatic. Feature types using this mode will automatically adjust their schema to match incoming features. Clicking it will edit the schema to just contain `Department`, `Local Area`, and `Cases`:

IMAGE

Now we need to connect our duplicated writer feature type to ensure the full data with edited schema is written. Connect the AttributeValueMapper output port to the new 311-requests00 feature type. Then double-click the feature type to open its parameters. Change the name back to 311-requests:

<!--- remove other time attributes -->

Now we have two CSV feature types being written.

{% call template.congrats() %}

<ul>
  <li>Use the StatisticsCalculator to generate a summary table.</li>
  <li>Use group-by to group features in a transformer.</li>
  <li>Observe that some transformers have multiple output ports creating different streams of data.</li>
</ul>

{% endcall %}
