# Upgrading FME Server #

### Full FME Server Upgrade ###

There are multiple approaches to upgrading your FME Server installation, each with its own advantages and disadvantages. The following table outlines several factors for upgrading to a second machine with a different hostname, upgrading to a second machine and using the same hostname, and upgrading FME Server in-place, on the same machine.


<table style="border: 0px">

<tr>
<td style="font-weight: bold"></td>
<td "align = "center" style="font-weight: bold">Upgrading to a Second Machine, Using a Different Host Name</td>
<td "align = "center" style="font-weight: bold">Upgrading to a Second Machine, Using the Same Host Name</td>
<td "align = "center" style="font-weight: bold">Upgrading In-Place, on the Same Machine</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="">FME Server configuration remains available from the old installation</td>
<td "align = "center" style="">As the previous installation is still available, any configurations can still be accessed.</td>
<td "align = "center" style="">As the previous installation is still available, any configurations can still be accessed.</td>
<td "align = "center" style="">As the previous installation is uninstalled, any configurations are also removed.</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="">Existing FME Server installation remains accessible without interruption</td>
<td "align = "center" style="">As the previous installation is still available, users can still access it while the new FME Server is set up.</td>
<td "align = "center" style="">As the previous installation is still available, users can still access it while the new FME Server is set up.</td>
<td "align = "center" style="">As the previous installation is uninstalled, users will experience down time while the new FME Server is installed and configured.</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="">No DNS entry modification is required by your IT department</td>
<td "align = "center" style="">As FME Server is installed using the different hostname, users will be able to access it using the new hostname.</td>
<td "align = "center" style="">You may require DNS entry modification to ensure that the correct FME Server will be accessed.</td>
<td "align = "center" style="">As FME Server is installed using the original hostname on the same machine, users will be able to access it using the original hostname.</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="">Does not require provision of additional machine</td>
<td "align = "center" style="">You will require an additinoal server to complete this upgrade.</td>
<td "align = "center" style="">You will require an additinoal server to complete this upgrade.</td>
<td "align = "center" style="">As the new version of FME Server is being installed on the same machine, you do not need an additional machine.</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="">Users and applications must be updated to access FME Server through a different host name</td>
<td "align = "center" style="">As the new FME Server installation has a new hostname, users will need to be notified of the new url.</td>
<td "align = "center" style="">As the new FME Server installation has the same hostname, users can access FME Server using the same url.</td>
<td "align = "center" style="">As the new FME Server installation has the same hostname, users can access FME Server using the same url</td>
</tr>

</table>


### FME Engine Only Upgrade ###

FME Engines are the component of FME Server that perform the actual data translations and transformations. At times, you might want to upgrade only your FME Engines and not any other FME Server components. For example, you might want to provide support for recently added formats or other newer functionality included in a new release, which requires only an upgrade of the FME Engines.

Since 2018.0 there is no support for an Engine only upgrade due to technical changes that have been made to the product.
