# Module Review

This chapter looked at advanced techniques for reading and writing datasets with FME.

**What You Should Have Learned from this Module**

The following are key points to be learned from this session: 

**Theory**

- Datasets stored on the web can be read either using a simple URL or through an FME Web Connection. 
- A Fanout is a way to divide data into a number of layers or a number of datasets, according to the value of a user-defined attribute.
- The Generic Reader and Writer allow a workspace to be dynamic in terms of format; it can read any format of data and write any format of data.
- Schema is composed of Feature Types, Attributes, and Geometry. A Dynamic translation is a universal workspace that can handle any combination of schema.
- The Schema in a dynamic workspace does not need to come from the source datasets; it can come from another dataset entirely, come from a lookup table, or can be constructed as list attributes inside the workspace.

**FME Skills**

- The ability to read and write datasets from and to a zip file
- The ability to read data stored on the web or in a web service
- The ability to use a Feature Type Fanout and a Dataset Fanout
- The ability to use the Generic Reader and Writer
- The ability to create a simple Dynamic workspace
- The ability to add a Resource Reader
- The ability to use a Resource Reader or Lookup Table as the schema source in a dynamic translation.

### Further Reading ###

For further reading why not browse articles tagged with **[Dynamic Schema](blog.safe.com/tag/dynamic-schema/)** or **[Fanout](http://blog.safe.com/tag/fanout/)** on our blog? 