One of the datasets in the FMEData2015 folder is CommunityMap.gdb. This dataset is a series of base datasets used by the planning department for various community mapping tasks.
However, the planning department now wants to create a new community map dataset, with new data, but using the existing schema where possible. They also – for reasons that are unclear – want a format change to GML!
So, let’s create a new workspace to handle that scenario.

**1)** Inspect Data

At the moment two datasets have been identified as being required in the new community mapping Geodatabase. They are:

Format: GML (Geography Markup Language)
Dataset: C:\FMEData2015\Data\Emergency\FireHalls.gml

Format: MapInfo TAB (MITAB)
Dataset: C:\FMEData2015\Data\Parks\Parks.tab

So, inspect these two datasets in the FME Data Inspector, to become familiar with them. There was already parks data in the community mapping, but this time it is polygons, not points. The FireHalls data is entirely new for community mapping.

**2)** Start Workbench

Start FME Workbench and begin by generating a workspace as follows: Reader Format GML (Geography Markup Language)

Reader Dataset C:\FMEData2015\Data\Emergency\FireHalls.gml

Writer Format GML (Geography Markup Language)
Writer Dataset C:\FMEData2015\Output\NewCommunityMap.gml
Workflow Options Dynamic Schema

**3)** Add Reader

So far; so good. Now let’s add a Reader for the new parks data.

Select Readers > Add Reader from the menubar. Add a Reader as follows:

Format MapInfo TAB (MITAB)
Dataset C:\FMEData2015\Data\Parks\Parks.tab
Workflow Single Merged Feature Type

Connect the new Reader feature type up to the existing Writer feature type.

**4) **Add Resource Reader

One of the requirements was to use the existing schema where possible. With the firehalls it wasn’t possible, since that never existed in the CommunityMaps before.

However, the parks dataset does exist in the current CommunityMaps dataset, so we’ll need to use that schema.

So, select Readers > Add Reader as Resource.

When prompted, enter the following info:

Reader Format Esri Geodatabase (File Geodb API)
Reader Dataset C:\FMEData2015\Data\CommunityMapping\CommunityMap.gdb

Click OK and the Reader is added as a Resource:

**5)** Adjust Dynamic Parameters

Now we need to make sure that resource is being used.

Open the properties dialog for the Writer feature type. Under Dynamic Properties click the edit […] button for Schema Sources.

Put a checkmark against CommunityMap and ensure Parks is NOT checked. Click OK.

Now click the edit […] button next to Schema Definition.

Since we are writing both points and polygons, for some formats we might have to change the Geometry setting. But GML can cope with both geometry types and so this section is greyedout.

Click OK to close this dialog and OK again to close the Feature Type Properties dialog.

**6)** Save and Run Workspace

Save the workspace and then run it.

Inspect the output. There should be two layers: one for fire halls, the other for parks. The parks dataset should have a schema of ParkName, ParkAddress, and ParkURL (even if there is no data to fill some fields yet). However, notice that it also has OBJECTID, which came from the Geodatabase and we don’t really need.

**7)** Delete Attribute

Re-open the properties dialog for the Writer feature type. Under Dynamic Properties click the edit […] button next to Schema Definition.

Click the […] button at the foot of the dialog next to Attributes to Remove.

In the dialog that opens, type OBJECTID into the first field. You won’t be able to select it from the drop-down list because it comes from a resource reader, not a real reader.

Click OK to close that dialog, then once more to close the Schema Definition dialog.

But don’t close the Feature Type Properties dialog yet.

**8)** Add Attribute

A last-minute request is to add an attribute – LastUpdatedBy – to all tables in the output.

So, click on the User Attributes tab and add this new attribute. Make it a 30 character string.

**9) **Re-Run Workspace

Save the workspace and run it again.

Inspect the output. Notice that OBJECTID will not appear as an attribute. LastUpdatedBy does appear, albeit that it doesn’t have a value yet.