In this exercise your task is to create a workspace with which end-users can output a dataset of Community Mapping in a format of their choice. This would be an excellent workspace to use for an FME Server Data Download service.

**1)** Start Workbench

Start FME Workbench and begin with an empty canvas. Select Readers > Add Reader from the menubar and add the following:

Reader Format: Esri Geodatabase (File Geodb API) Reader Dataset: C:\FMEData2015\Data\CommunityMapping\CommunityMap.gdb

Workflow Options: Single Merged Feature Type

By selecting the single merged feature type option we will have a workspace that is nice and compact, plus it will allow the user to select which tables they want to read from the source.

Click OK to close the dialog and add the Reader.

**2)** Add Writer

Select Writers > Add Writer from the menubar and add a Generic Writer.

You don’t have to select an output location, but will you have to open the parameters dialog and set an original output format; so do that and select a format like Esri Shape.

In the "Add Feature Types" section of the dialog, select Automatic for feature type definitions:

In the Feature Type Properties dialog set the Allowed Geometries field to fme_any. This will allow any data to be written to this feature type. The "output" part of the Writer refers to the output location, which may or may not be set in your workspace.

Check the User Attributes tab and you will see that the attribute definition is set to Automatic.

Click OK to close the dialog and add the new feature type. Connect it to the source feature type. When you make the connection the attribute schema will automatically be updated to match the connected Reader feature type:

**3)** Check User Parameters

Look in the Navigator window at the user parameters that were created automatically with the Reader and Writer.

The parameter for source dataset we don’t need (it will always be this dataset) so delete it.

Another parameter is Feature Types to Read. This is very useful because when the user runs the workspace they will be prompted which tables to read from the source Geodatabase, so keep this one.

Similarly keep the Destination Dataset parameter.

The Output Format parameter is interesting. Double-click on it as if you were going to set a value. Notice that the "More Formats..." option in the drop-down list opens up the full FME formats list.

It wouldn’t be fair to the end-user to expose so many formats, when they don’t really need to see or select most of them. It would be better to restrict this list. So, delete this user parameter, and we’ll create a new one.

**4)** Add User Parameter

Now add a new User Parameter, by right-clicking on User Parameters and selecting Add Parameter. In the dialog that opens…

Set type to Choice with Alias.

Set OutputFormat as the name.

Set Output Format as the prompt.

Turn off the Optional checkbox.

For configuration click the browse […] button to open a new dialog. In that dialog, select Import

- Writer Formats. Select a handful of the most common formats like Shape, AutoCAD DWG, GML, and MapInfo TAB; then click OK.

Then click OK twice more until all the dialogs are closed.

**5)** Link Parameter

Now, in the Navigator window, expand the parameters for the Generic Writer. Locate the Output Format parameter. Right-click it and choose Link to User Parameter.

Select the newly created OutputFormat parameter and click OK.
Now when the workspace is run, the choice of output format will be between these few:

**6)** Expose Format Attribute

The other, final, task we can do here is to output the features to their original table. To do this we need to know where they came from, and that is obtained from a format attribute called fme_feature_type.

Open the properties dialog for the Reader feature type and click the Format Attributes tab.

Put a checkmark next to fme_feature_type and click OK to close the dialog:

**7)** Set Feature Type Fanout

Now open the properties dialog for the Writer feature type. Check the box for Fanout by Attribute and select fme_feature_type as the attribute to fanout by.

**8)** Save and Run Workspace

Save the workspace and then run it using Prompt and Run. When prompted, select some source tables to read (include at least the GarbageSchedule plus one other) and set an output folder. Set Esri Shape as the format to write.

Examine the output folder. The selected tables have been written back to Shape format.

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Sister Intuitive says…</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
“Did you notice that FME handled the different geometry types and
output the files with the geometry as part of the name? It’s a Shape
format thing. FME can never – and will never – write more than one
geometry type to the same Shape file.”
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

The one drawback is that each output Shape file has all of the attributes of the source data. To avoid that you would need to add each table in the source separately (as we can see in the Advanced Task below).

The one drawback is that each output Shape file has all of the attributes of the source data. To avoid that you would need to add each table in the source separately (as we can see in the Advanced Task below).

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-cogs fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Advanced Exercise</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">

</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

If the Writer feature type was set to a manual definition of the attribute schema, then we would be unable to use any other source data as the Generic Writer would be constrained by the fixed nature of this schema. However, since we made the attribute definitions automatic, it's now possible to run this workspace and use a different dataset... provided we add a new Reader too.

**9)** Add Reader

Select Readers > Add Reader from the menubar and add the following:

Reader Format: Esri Geodatabase (File Geodb API)
Reader Dataset: C:\FMEData2015\Data\Addresses\Addresses.gdb
Workflow Options: Individual Feature Types

There will be separate Reader feature types for addresses and postcode boundaries.

**10)** Connect Schema

In the workspace, disconnect the CommunityMap feature type from the Generic Writer, and instead connect the PostalAddress feature type. Notice that the schema will automatically update to match the Address data.

Run the workspace (setting a different output format such as GML)and inspect the output to prove that the Generic Writer is writing the format correctly, and that the automatic attributes setting is creating the correct attribute schema:

