# Advanced Workflows Quiz #

Each section ends with a quiz to test your new knowledge. Make your selection and click "Check my answers" to check each individual question. If you want an explanation for the answer, click "Explain".

**Note**: your score won't be tallied; this is just for review purposes.

<quiz name="">
  <question>
    <p>
    A Project can be shared only in the following circumstances:
    </p>
    <answer>You must own the Project. Only the Project owner can share it.</answer>
    <answer>You must be a user with permission to manage security. Only such a user can share a Project.</answer>
    <answer correct>You can own the Project OR be a user with permission to manage security (i.e. you can be one or the other).</answer>
    <answer>If you own the Project then you can share it. But if you have permission to manage security, then you can share any Project.</answer>
    <explanation>If you own the Project then you can share it. But if you have permission to manage security, then you can share any Project.</explanation>
  </question>
  <question>
    <p>
      If you choose to export a Project to a Resources folder (rather than download it) then what additional capability do you gain?
    </p>
    <answer correct>The ability to trigger a notification topic on completion of the export.</answer>
    <answer>The ability to export the FME license for the server.</answer>
    <answer correct>The ability to remove all components of the project as they are exported.</answer>
    <answer>The ability to change ownership of the components to your own user account.</answer>
    <explanation>When you choose to export to Resources, you'll see a Notification panel at the bottom of the export settings page. You can use that to select a topic to notify if the export succeeds or fails. </explanation>
  </question>
  <question>
    <p>
      Checking the box to remove the contents of a Project removes all of the project components:
    </p>
    <answer>True</answer>
    <answer correct>False</answer>
    <explanation>A Project can contain users and roles. The remove tool won't remove the user carrying out the removal, nor will it remove any role for which that user is part of. Also it won't remove components you don't have permission to remove.</explanation>
  </question>
</quiz>
