# FME Server Security

FME Server includes security to prevent unauthorized users from accessing services and other resources. All security information for FME Server is stored in the repository database and is managed using the FME Server Web Interface.

The key to setting up FME Server security is to have a clear plan on which services and accounts will be provided with open access, and which need to be restricted.


## Roles and Users ##

Security is implemented using a system of roles and users. A role is best described as a function of the person; for example user, author, or administrator. Each user account is associated with one or more roles.

A default set of roles is defined when FME Server is installed. These are:

- **fmesuperuser**: *For users with unlimited access to the system*
- **fmeadmin**: *For users who need to carry out specific administration tasks*
- **fmeauthor**: *For users who are authoring workspaces to run on FME Server*
- **fmeuser**: *For users who need to run (but not author) workspaces*
- **fmeguest**: *For temporary users who need a minimal set of permissions*

A number of default accounts are created too. These are:

- **admin**: Assigned to the fmesuperuser and fmeadmin roles
- **author**: Assigned to the fmeauthor role
- **user**: Assigned to the fmeuser role
- **guest**: Assigned to the fmeguest role

---

<!--Person X Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Police Chief Webb-Mapp says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
Don't forget, these are just default accounts that FME creates. You can create any role necessary for your system, assign any specific security settings to it, and create any number of users assigned to that role.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

Rather than apply security settings to individual users, FME Server allows you to apply them to specific roles. That way the settings can be changed for multiple users at once.

There are a number of different policies that can be applied to each role.

