# Increasing Performance #

There are various techniques to improve performance on FME Server.

##  Adding Engines to an Existing Engine Machine ##

Adding engines allows more jobs to be processed simultaneously.

If your license allows, you can increase the number of engines on a particular host though the Web Interface. An FME Cloud machine even allows unlimited engines. However, the hardware must be suitable to handle the increase in engines. As a general rule of thumb one CPU core per FME Engine is optimal.


## Job Queues ##

Job queues are a mechanism for sending specific jobs to specific FME Engines. The reasons for using job queues include:

- Sending jobs to an FME Engine in close proximity to a data source
- Sending jobs to an FME Engine that supports a particular format
- Reserving an FME Engine for a scheduled task
- Reserving an FME Engine for quick jobs

When you create a job queue, you assign one or more FME Engines to the queue. Then, when you run a job, you can specify which queue to handle the job. This ensures that only the specified FME Engines will process that job.

By extension, you can also assign a repository to a queue. By default, all jobs are assigned to the queue of their respective workspace repository, unless another queue is specified for the job.

All engines and repositories must be assigned to a queue. If an engine or repository is not assigned to a queue explicitly, it is assigned to the Default queue.

Queue priority can be set on each queue.  Priority must be an integer between 1 and 10 and defaults to 5 if not set explicitly.  

The highest priority is 1 and the lowest priority is 10. If a higher priority job enters the queue it will be run before the lower priority jobs. Additionally, since repositories are assigned to queues, the repository has a huge effect on the job order.


---

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-info-circle fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">FME Lizard says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
When importing from older versions of FME Server using the Backup and Restore command, any historic priority will be restored. You should review the adjusted priority upon restoring a backup. In previous versions of FME Server priority was on a scale of 1-200 and will be adjusted to be between 1-10.  If a Queue with the same priority does not exist when a new job runs, it will be automatically created and added to the Engines. 
<br><br>Review
<a href="https://docs.safe.com/fme/2019.0/html/FME_Server_Documentation/WebUI/Job-Queues.htm">Job Directives</a> and the backward compatibility note on tm_priority.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

<!--New Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-bolt fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">NEW</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
"Job Queues" used to be referred to as "Job Routing" in older versions of FME Server.<br>
In older versions, job tags were created in either configuration files or via the FME Server REST API.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
