## Adding FME Engines on a Separate Machine ##

You can add processing capacity to your FME Server by installing additional FME Engines on a separate computer from the FME Server Core.

The number of licensed FME Engines you can add is limited only by the host’s CPU and memory resources, which constrain the maximum concurrent request throughput.

The additional FME Engines can be of any architecture (32- or 64-bit) and installed to any supported operating system (Windows or Linux). They do not have to match the specifications of the FME Server Core. It is important to note that the major versions must match; for example you should not install FME Server 2019 and try to add engines from FME Server 2018.


## Keep your FME Engines Close to the data ##

One of the main reasons to add engines on a separate machine is to have an FME engine closer to the data. For example, if data is located on a server in a remote office, it makes sense to add a local engine to server to process the data. This avoids long-distance transfers and network latency. 

Another reason to add separate engines is to gain access to 3rd party formats that may not be installed on the FME Server Core system.


## FME Core and Web Server ##

In most cases FME Engines are the limiting factor for performance. The FME Server core and database have no issues with a high number of requests.

Additionally FME Server’s Web Application Server can process in excess of 100,000 HTTP requests per hour. We believe there is no added benefit for additional FME Server Web Applications for performance, though you could have an additional Core and Web Application for fault tolerance purposes.