# Lab Questions

Please record your answers to these questions according to the direction of your instructor. Questions are provided in [multiple choice](#multiple-choice-questions) or [open-ended](#open-ended-questions) format. [Answers for instructors may be requested here.](https://goo.gl/forms/jWeso3OY6RVe6PJG3)

## Multiple Choice Questions

### Lecture

|Question|
--|--
1|Data integration can be defined as...<br><ol type="A"><li>discovery, cleansing, monitoring, transforming and delivery of data from a variety of sources.</li><li>using algebra to find the integral of a numeric attribute.</li><li>comparing predicted data to observed data.</li><li>using pivot tables/cross tabulation tables to find subtotals of grouped data.</li></ol>
2|What does ETL stand for?<br><ol type="A"><li>Enumerate, Translate, List</li><li>Expand, Transform, Loop</li><li>Extract, Transform, Load</li><li>Exact Technical Loading</li></ol>
3|What distinguishes FME's ETL capabilities?<br><ol type="A"><li>Low computer memory requirements</li><li>Multi-language support</li><li>Required coding knowledge</li><li>Ability to work with spatial data</li></ol>
4|In the terminology of FME, a *translation*...<br><ol type="A"><li> translates data from one format to another.</li><li>translates scripts from one programming language to another.</li><li>translates string data from one language to another.</li><li>translates the geographic coordinates of data to a different coordinate system.</li></ol>
5|In the terminology of FME, a *transformation*...<br><ol type="A"><li>transforms data from one format to another.</li><li>transforms data by moving it from one digital storage location to another.</li><li>transforms data by showing it on a map.</li><li> transforms data by changing the structure or content of the data.</li></ol>
6|The FME Data Inspector is a fully-featured GIS and cartography application. True or false?<br><ol type="A"><li>True</li><li>False</li></ol>
7|What is the difference between *structural* and *content* data transformation?<br><ol type="A"><li>Structural transformation performs statistical analysis, while content transformation uploads data to a new location on the web.<li>Structural transformation merges, divides, re-orders, or otherwise changes data structures, while content transformation changes the underlying values in a dataset.</li><li>Structural transformation makes long datasets wide and vice versa, while content transformation adds metadata to the dataset.</li><li>Structural transformation transforms the data into a different format, while content transformation performs spatial analysis on the data.</li></ol>

### Lab

|Question|
--|--
8|In [Exercise 1](Integration2Lab\Exercise1.md), which library has the highest circulation?<br><ol type="A"><li>Mount Pleasant</li><li>Kitsilano</li><li>Central Branch</li><li>Firehall</li></ol>
9|In [Exercise 3](Integration2Lab\Exercise3.md), what is the value of ZoneName for the westernmost Industrial zone? _Hint_: you can try using the Filter function (Tools > Filter Features) of Data Inspector to narrow down your choices. <br><ol type="A"><li>IC-1</li><li>IC-2</li><li>IC-3</li><li>I-1</li><li>I-2</li><li>I-3</li><li>M-1</li><li>M-2</li><li>M-3</li><li>M-4</li></ol>
10|In [Exercise 4](Integration2Lab\Exercise4.md), what is the type of the attribute VisitorCount?<br><ol type="A"><li>char</li><li>integer</li><li>smallint</li><li>float</li></ol>
11|In [Exercise 4](Integration2Lab\Exercise4.md), what is the type of the attribute ParkArea?<br><ol type="A"><li>char</li><li>integer</li><li>smallint</li><li>float</li></ol>
12|Complete the Advanced Exercise for [Exercise 5](Integration2Lab\Exercise5.md). Who might benefit if you include bookmarks and annotation in your workspace? Select all that apply.<br><ol type="A"><li>A client or customer provided with the workspace</li><li>A coworker who has to edit the workspace</li><li>Yourself in the future if you return to the workspace</li><li>The end-user of the data produced by the workspace</li></ol>
13|Complete the Advanced Exercise for [Exercise 6](Integration2Lab\Exercise6.md). What are the names of the smallest and largest parks?<br><ol type="A"><li>Smallest: Carolina Park; Largest: Stanley Park.</li><li>Smallest: Pioneer Place (Pigeon Park); Largest: Vanier Park.</li><li>Smallest: Pioneer Place (Pigeon Park); Largest: Stanley Park.</li><li>Smallest: Jean Beaty Park; Largest: Vanier Park.</li></ol>
14|In [Exercise 7](Integration2Lab\Exercise7.md), how many parks have greater-than-average areas (i.e. have a ParkArea that is >= AverageParkArea)? How many are below average? _Hint_: use a Tester transformer after the StatisticsCalculator transformer. <br><ol type="A"><li>5 and 68</li><li>14 and 96</li><li>12 and 61</li><li>4 and 69</li></ol>
15|In [Exercise 8](Integration2Lab\Exercise8.md), what is the average size of parks in the Kitsilano neighborhood?<br><ol type="A"><li>24,469 m<sup>2</sup></li><li>28,638 m<sup>2</sup></li><li>23,986 m<sup>2</sup></li><li>27,628 m<sup>2</sup></li></ol>
16|Complete the Advanced Exercise for [Exercise 9](Integration2Lab\Exercise9.md). Assuming you want to calculate the park areas using the B.C. Albers coordinate system and units, you should place the Reprojector transformer after the AreaCalculator. True or false?<br><ol type="A"><li>True</li><li>False</li></ol>

### Data Integration Scenario

|Question|
--|--
17|What percentage of Vancouver public art installations are located in the downtown neighborhood?<br><ol type="A"><li>84%</li><li>47%</li><li>66%</li><li>62%</li></ol>
18|Which neighborhood has the longest total bike path length?<br><ol type="A"><li>Downtown</li><li>Fairview</li><li>Kitsilano</li><li>Mount Pleasant</li><li>Stanley Park</li><li>Strathcona</li><li>West End</li></ol>

## Open-ended Questions

### Lecture

|Question|
--|--
1|Think of an existing business, organization, or technology that relies heavily on data (e.g. [VRBO](https://www.vrbo.com/), the [United Nation Statistics Division](https://unstats.un.org/home/about/), or [autonomous cars](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autonomous_car)). What kind of data sources might it need to integrate? Describe three data sources, their formats, and what information they provide. How would data integration in this example relate to one of the nine reasons to integrate your data covered in the lecture?
2|What is spatial ETL?
3|In the terminology of FME, what is the difference between a *translation* and a *transformation*?
4|Is the FME Data Inspector a fully-featured GIS and cartography application? Why or why not?
5|What is the difference between structural and content data transformation?

### Lab

|Question|
--|--
6|What is another use case for this workspace in [Exercise 1](Integration2Lab\Exercise1.md) if the data were different? What organization or business could benefit from a similar data integration workspace?
7|In [Exercise 3](Integration2Lab\Exercise3.md), what is the value of ZoneName for the westernmost Industrial zone?
8|In [Exercise 4](Integration2Lab\Exercise4.md), why is VisitorCount stored with Type “integer” and variable while ParkArea and AverageParkArea are stored with Type “float”?
9|Complete the Advanced Exercise for [Exercise 5](Integration2Lab\Exercise5.md). Why might bookmarking your workspaces be considered a best practice for FME users? Best practice is defined by Merriam-Webster as “a procedure that has been shown by research and experience to produce optimal results and that is established or proposed as a standard suitable for widespread adoption.”
10|Complete the Advanced Exercise for [Exercise 6](Integration2Lab\Exercise6.md). What are the smallest, largest, and total park areas? What are the names of the smallest and largest parks? Don’t forget to include units. Where can you confirm the data’s units?
11|In [Exercise 7](Integration2Lab\Exercise7.md), how many parks have greater-than-average areas (i.e. have a ParkArea that is >= AverageParkArea)? How many are below average? _Hint_: use a Tester transformer after the StatisticsCalculator transformer.
12|In [Exercise 8](Integration2Lab\Exercise8.md), what is the average size of parks in the Kitsilano neighborhood?
13|Complete the Advanced Exercise for  [Exercise 9](Integration2Lab\Exercise9.md). Where should the Reprojector transformer be placed in the workspace and why is this important?

### Data Integration Scenario

|Question|
--|--
14|What percentage of Vancouver public art installations are located in the downtown neighborhood?
15|Which neighborhood has the longest total bike path length?

Write a 200 word report on the data integration solution you created.
- Include the brainstorming diagram or outline you created before carrying out the walkthrough analysis. How close were you? What did you not anticipate?
- Which additional dataset did you use?
- What problem or question does your solution address?
- What analysis steps did you carry out?
- Provide a deliverable of some kind to show the value of your project. This could be a map (screenshot of Data Inspector is ok), a table, or a description of a new organizational process made possible by the solution.
