# Troubleshooting #

## Initial Troubleshooting ##

### Verification ###

After performing each of the following solutions, please verify if the issue has been corrected by running through a quick verification process for either Windows (http://fme.ly/WindowsVerification) or Linux (http://fme.ly/LinuxVerification).

### Restart FME Server ###

Restart FME Server and make sure all the services are running. If any services fail to start, then reboot the operating system and try to restart the services again.
<br>
NOTE: If licensing is hosted on a different machine, the License Server Service will not start and is not actually necessary for FME Server to run.

### Look for Orphan Processes ###

An orphan process is a computer process whose parent process has finished or terminated, though it remains running itself. In this case we are looking for unintentionally orphaned processes, such as when the parent process terminates or crashes. To find these, stop all services listed in the documentation (http://fme.ly/SystemServices), and proceed as follows:

**Windows**
<br>
- Open the task manager and look for any orphaned processes starting with FME. If any are found, end those processes and start the services again.

**Linux**
<br>
- Run the following command to list processes:

	# ps -A

Look for the processes as described in the linked documentation article above. For reference, these may include:

- **fme** – one for each running FME Engine
- **FMEServer** - FME Server Core
- **FMEScheduler** - FME Server scheduler - requires the core to be running
- **FMENotifier** - FME Server notifier - requires the core to be running
- **FMESubscriber** - FME Server subscriber - requires the core to be running
- **FMERelayer** - FME Server Relay Manager
- **FMESMTPRelay** - FME Server Email receiver
- **FMEWebSocket** - FME Server WebSocket Server
- **FMECleanup** - FME Server Cleanup service
- **tomcat7** – FME Server Web Application Server
- **postgres** – FME Server Database Server
- **lmgrd** – FME License Server

For example, you might see listed: *53521 pts/3 00:00:03 fme*
To stop this process, run the following:

	 # kill 53521

**Restart the System**
<br>
Restart the operating system. Perform the verification linked above and see if the problem still exists.

### Revert any recent Changes ###
Check if there have beeen any recent changes on the machine. Has a software update been applied or new hardware added? Configuration files edited? If so, try reverting the system to the state prior to the update and see if that resolves the issue.

## FME Server Log Files ##

Read the FME Server Log Files for error messages. This can be quite helpful to find the cause of an issue.

**Access from the Web User Interface** 
<br>
Open the Web UI and navigate to the Resources page to access the log files.

**Access from the File System**
<br>
If the Web UI is not accessible, you can access the log files from the FME Server System Share: *<FMEServerSystemShare\>\resources\logs*

The FME Server System Share location can be specified at install times. By default it is set to *C:\ProgramData\Safe Software\FME Server* on Windows

### What to look for in FME Server Log Files ###

Within the the logs there are three types of messages: **Inform**, **Warn** and **Error**. You should be looking for Warning and Errors in the logs. Inform messages may not signify a problem, even if the word “Error” is located within its text.

Example **Inform Error**:

	2013-05-09 13:54:20| 0.9| 0.0|INFORM|FAILURE_RESPONSE !FME_ERROR_NUMBER!:!FME_ERROR_MSG!

Example **Warn Error**:

	Thu-13-Jun-2013 02:22:04 PM WARN RequestHandler-Thread 401934 : Failed login by user FMEuser due to insufficient credentials.

Example **Error**:

	Thu-09-May-2013 01:55:24 PM ERROR RequestHandler-Thread 401939 : Failed to register FME Engine.

If a Warn/Error message is encountered, it may be beneficial to search the document for the error text in order to find assistance.

## Knowledge Center ##

The Knowledge Center is a question and answer site for FME users. Post a question for others in the FME community or check if someone else had the same question and already received an answer.

One particular article: **FME Server Troubleshooting Guide** has several common FME Server problems and solutions listed and is an excellent resource for troubleshooting. Find it here: http://fme.ly/TroubleshootingGuide