# FME Server Log Files #

Read the FME Server Log Files for error messages. This can be quite helpful to find the cause of an issue.

**Access from the Web Interface** 
<br>
Open the web interface and navigate to the Resources page to access the log files.

**Access from the File System**
<br>
If the web interface is not accessible, you can access the log files from the FME Server System Share: *<FMEServerSystemShare\>\resources\logs*

The FME Server System Share location can be specified at install times. By default, it is set to *C:\ProgramData\Safe Software\FME Server* on Windows, which is a hidden folder. 


### Which FME Server Log Files should I view? ###

FME Server Logs are split into 4 folders:

Core:

This contains logs about the core functionality and configurations of FME Server. It also contains logs for the Publishers, Subscribers and tasks (migration).

Engine:

Contains job logs, as well as logs for every engine.

Queue:

Contains a log file relating to the FME Server queue.

Service:

Contains log files relating to FME Server services.

Tomcat:

Contains log files generated by the FME Web Application Server (Tomcat).



### What to look for in FME Server Log Files ###

In the logs there are three types of messages: **Inform**, **Warn** and **Error**. You should be looking for Warning and Errors in the logs. Inform messages may not signify a problem, even if the word “Error” is located within its text.

Example **Inform Error**:

    2019-05-09 13:54:20| 0.9| 0.0|INFORM|FAILURE_RESPONSE !FME_ERROR_NUMBER!:!FME_ERROR_MSG!

Example **Warn Error**:

    Thu-13-Jun-2019 02:22:04 PM WARN RequestHandler-Thread 401934 : Failed login by user FMEuser due to insufficient credentials.

Example **Error**:

    Thu-09-May-2019 01:55:24 PM ERROR RequestHandler-Thread 401939 : Failed to register FME Engine.

If a Warn/Error message is encountered, it may be beneficial to search the documentation and [FME Knowledge Center](https://knowledge.safe.com) for the error text in order to find assistance.
