# Additional Troubleshooting #


The log files are a good place to look first, and any error messages can be searched on our FME Community (or the wider internet - especially for issues with Tomcat).



Here are some additional troubleshooting steps that an adminstrator may try:

## FME Workbench-FME Server Connection ##

If you are unable to connect from FME Workbench to FME Server then the following suggestions may be of help:

- Check if there is a firewall running on either your computer or the FME Server. If so, you must open port 80 (or 8080) to use the Web Connection. A popular tool for checking ports is netstat, a command line utility on Windows, or telnet on Linux systems.
- Restart the FME Server Services. On Windows, go to Start &gt; Programs &gt; FME Server &gt; right-click Restart FME Server and select Run as administrator.

## Web Interface ##

If you are unable to access the web interface then the following suggestions may be of help:

- Confirm that FME Server is installed and running! The easiest way to be sure is to restart FME Server using Start &gt; Programs &gt; FME Server &gt; Restart FME Server
- Check whether FME Server was installed using an application server port other than 80. For example, if port 80 was already being used the installer might have used a different port; 8080 is most common. To check, try entering the URL with this syntax http://&lt;host&gt;:&lt;port&gt;/fmeserver - for example, http://localhost:8080/fmeserver

## Workspaces are Queued but not Run ##

If a workspace appears in the FME Server queue but is never initiated, then it may be because no engines are running.

- Check the web interface (Engines & Licensing &gt; Engine Management) to confirm engine status. If no engines are available, check licensing and update as necessary. Restart FME Server once a proper license is in place.
- If engine status is good review the job queues to make sure the engines all have queues assigned to them that match the queued job requests.

## Workspaces Fail when Run ##

If a workspace fails when it is being run then the following suggestions may help:

- Run the workspace first on FME Desktop. If it does not work there, it may not work on FME Server.
- Data paths can cause problems when moving from a local Desktop machine to a Server environment. Check the dataset parameters (Reader and Writer) to ensure they are not referring to a local path that does not exist on the Server. You may need to change the parameter to use the Resources dialog (Browse) and not a file path dialog (Specify Location). File permissions and the service account used to run the FME Server Windows Services is commonly the fault.
- Check the FME log file using Jobs &gt; Completed in the web interface. This may help to explain why there is a problem.

## Scheduling ##

If a scheduled workspace appears to have not been run at the expected time then the following suggestions may be of help:

- Ensure an engine is available, and that the scheduled job is not in a queue.
- Check the date and time very carefully to ensure the correct values were entered.
- Check the timezone is correct. The web interface operates on local timezone, which is not necessarily the same time zone as where the server is physically located.

## Cannot Connect to WebSockets Server ##

If you cannot connect to a WebSockets server then the following may be of help:

- Ensure the FME Server's WebSockets port (default 7078) is open.
- Ensure you are using the correct stream_id for sending and receiving between your applications.
