## Data Inspection ##

To ensure that you're dealing with the right information you need a clear view of your data at every stage of the transformation process.

Data inspection meets this need: it is the act of viewing data for verification and debugging purposes, before, during, or after a translation.

In FME Desktop, you can use two data inspection tools: in Workbench via the **Visual Preview** window, or in a complementary application called the **FME Data Inspector**. In this course we will discuss both, but will primarily use Visual Preview.

FME data inspection tools let you view data in any supported format. They are used primarily to preview data before translation or to verify it after translation. You can use them to set up and debug workspaces by inspecting data *during* the translation.

FME data inspection tools are not designed to be full-featured spreadsheet, database, or mapping applications. They have no analysis or editing functionality, and the tools for symbology modification or printing are intended for data validation rather than producing output.

## What Can Be Inspected? ##
A number of different aspects of data may be inspected, including the following:

- **Format**: Is the data in the expected format?
- **Schema**: Is the data subdivided into the correct layers, categories or classes?
- **Geometry**: Is the geometry in the correct spatial location? Are the geometry types correct?
- **Symbology**: Is the color, size, and style of each feature correct?
- **Attributes**: Are all the required attributes present? Are all integrity rules being followed?
- **Quantity**: Does the data contain the correct number of features?
- **Output**: Has the translation process restructured the data as expected?

---

<!--Lizard Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
  <tr>
    <td colspan="100%" style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
      <i class="fa fa-info-circle fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
      <span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">FME Lizard says...</span>
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td style="border-left: 1px solid darkorange; border-bottom: 1px solid darkorange">
      <span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
          Inspecting data before using it helps to detect problems before they affect the translation.
          <br><br>Features in the wrong source layer could need the whole process to be repeated. Data Inspection prevents that hassle. Now I know that if the data is fine, the final result will be too!
      </span>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

---
