# Introduction to Data Inspection #

To ensure that you're dealing with the right information you need a clear view of your data at every stage of the transformation process. 

Data Inspection meets this need: it is the act of viewing data for verification and debugging purposes, before, during, or after a translation.

## What Can Be Inspected? ##
A number of different aspects of data may be inspected, including the following:

- **Format**: Is the data in the expected format?
- **Schema**: Is the data subdivided into the correct layers, categories or classes?
- **Geometry**: Is the geometry in the correct spatial location? Are the geometry types correct?
- **Symbology**: Is the color, size, and style of each feature correct?
- **Attributes**: Are all the required attributes present? Are all integrity rules being followed?
- **Quantity**: Does the data contain the correct number of features?
- **Output**: Has the translation process restructured the data as expected?

---

<!--Person X Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Chef Bimm says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
Hi. I'm Chef Bimm and I'm here to help you cook up some tasty data translations.
<br><br>I have a great recipe for loading CAD files into a Building Information Model. Inspecting the ingredients... I mean data... before I use them lets me detect problems before they affect the translation.
<br><br>Features in the wrong source layer could need the whole process to be repeated. Data Inspection saves me that hassle. Now I know that if the "sauce" is fine, the final result will be too!
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>