# Module Review #

This module introduced you to FME and investigated the basics of FME data translations.

## What You Should Have Learned from this Module ##

The following are key points to be learned from this session:

### Theory ###

- FME is a **data integration tool** to translate and transform data, with an emphasis on spatial data.

- FME Workbench is an application to **graphically define a translation** and the flow of data within it. The definition of a translation is known as a **workspace** and can be saved to a file for later use.

- **Quick Translation** is the technique of carrying out a translation generated by FME, without further editing.

- The **Generate Workspace dialog** is the primary method by which a *quick translation* can be set up in FME Workbench.

- **Data Inspection** is a technique for checking and verifying data before, during, and after a translation. FME Data Inspector and Visual Preview can both be used for inspecting data.

- **Feature caching** makes it easier to store data for inspection and performance purposes while building workspaces.

- **Partial runs** allow specified sections of a workspace to run in isolation.


### FME Skills ###

- The ability to open a workspace in FME Workbench and run it
- The ability to start FME Workbench and set up a *quick translation*
- The ability to start the FME Data Inspector, and to open and add datasets
- The ability to navigate a dataset and to query features within it
- The ability to control Data Inspector symbology and display characteristics
- The ability to set background maps in the Data Inspector
- The ability to inspect data using Visual Preview
- The ability to run a workspace with feature caching
- The ability to run selected sections of a workspace
