# Module Review #

This module introduced you to FME and investigated the basics of FME data translations.

 
## What You Should Have Learned from this Module ##

The following are key points to be learned from this session:

### Theory ###

- FME is a tool to translate and transform data, with an emphasis on spatial data. 

- FME Workbench is an application to graphically define a translation and the flow of data within it. The definition of a translation is known as a *workspace* and can be saved to a file for later use.

- Quick Translation is the technique of carrying out a translation generated by FME, without further editing.

- The Generate Workspace dialog is the main method by which a *quick translation* can be set up in FME Workbench.

- Data Inspection is a technique for checking and verifying data before, during, and after a translation. The FME Data Inspector is a tool for inspecting data.


### FME Skills ###

- The ability to open a workspace in FME Workbench and run it
- The ability to start FME Workbench and set up a *quick translation*
- The ability to start the FME Data Inspector, and to open and add datasets
- The ability to navigate a dataset and to query features within it
- The ability to control Data Inspector symbology and display characteristics
- The ability to set background maps in the Data Inspector

### Further Reading ###

For further reading why not browse **[articles about data formats](http://blog.safe.com/tag/data-formats)** or **[articles tagged with Data Inspector](http://blog.safe.com/tag/data-inspector)** on our blog? 
