# Data Translation Basics Quiz

Each section ends with a quiz to test your new knowledge. Make your selection and click "Check my answers" to check each individual question. If you want an explanation for the answer, click "Explain".

**Note**: your score won't be tallied; this is just for review purposes.

<quiz name="">
  <question>
    <p>
      In <a href="./1.Exercise1.html">Exercise 1</a>, Which library branch has the highest circulation?
    </p>
    <answer>Strathcona</answer>
    <answer>Carnegie</answer>
    <answer correct>Central Branch</answer>
    <answer>Firehall</answer>
    <answer>Joe Fortes</answer>
    <answer>Kitsilano</answer>
    <answer>Mount Pleasant</answer>
    <answer>Accessible Services</answer>
    <explanation>View the output of C:/FMEData2019/Output/Training/LibraryReport.html; the highest value of Book Circulation is 1,751,704 and belongs to the Central Branch.</explanation>
  </question>
  <question>
    <p>
      Which of the following statements is true about the Generate Workspace dialog?
    </p>
    <answer correct>You must define both the reader and writer format</answer>
    <answer>You must define the reader format, but writer format is optional</answer>
    <answer>The reader format is optional, but you must define the writer format</answer>
    <answer>Both the reader and writer formats are optional</answer>
    <explanation>Generate Workspace requires both a reader and writer format. You can use leave the Format field blank (it will show &lt;Guess from Dataset&gt;) and FME will try to guess your format. However, you must still eventually supply a value to this field. In more advanced training modules, you can learn how to set a Generic reader or writer, which can use any format FME supports.</explanation>
  </question>
  <question>
    <p>
      Visual Preview and FME Data Inspector are fully-functioned spatial data analysis and cartography tools.
    </p>
    <answer>True</answer>
    <answer correct>False</answer>
    <explanation>Visual Preview and FME Data Inspector are not designed to replace GIS software, but rather to provide a quick and useful way to inspect the result of FME workspaces.</explanation>
  </question>
  <question multiple>
    <p>
      Which of the following scenarios would be well-suited to using feature caching? Check all that apply.
    </p>
    <answer correct>Reading from a large database</answer>
    <answer correct>Reading from a large web dataset</answer>
    <answer>Running a production workspace</answer>
    <answer>Running a simple workspace with a Creator and a single Emailer to send an email</answer>
    <answer correct>Using partial runs to incrementally develop a workspace with a complicated workflow</answer>
    <explanation>
      <p>
        Workspaces that read large datasets or data that is slow to access, including databases or data on a network, can benefit from feature caching. Read the data once to cache it and then use Run From This or Run To This.
      </p>
      <p>
        The initial process of feature caching takes longer than running the workspace without feature caching on, so it is not a good idea to keep feature caching on with a production workspace.
      </p>
      <p>
        A very simple workspace with only one or two transformers, neither of which produce many features, will not benefit from feature caching.
      </p>
      <p>
        Using partial runs with feature caching is a great way to quickly build and test sections of your workspace.
      </p>
    </explanation>
  </question>
  <question multiple>
    <p>
      In the Generate Workspace dialog, if you don't set the data format before browsing for the source data, what might happen? Check all that apply.
    </p>
    <answer>Generate Workspace will fail</answer>
    <answer correct>You might not see the file you are looking for, because you are filtering to look for a different file format</answer>
    <answer>Trick question! Workbench will not let you browse for source data before setting a format.</answer>
    <answer correct>Workbench might guess the wrong format for your data, such as guessing it is a JSON file when it is actually a GeoJSON file.</answer>
    <explanation>
        If you don't set the file format before browsing, a few things could happen. If it is already set to a format from earlier, you will only see that format while browsing and so you might not see the file you are looking for. If it is set to Guess from Dataset, Workbench will use the file extension to guess the format. This usually works, but in some cases will create an unintended result. For example, if you select a file with a .json ending, Workbench will assume this is a plain JSON file. However, if it is actually a <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GeoJSON">GeoJSON</a> file, the geometry won't be read unless you specify to use the <a href="https://docs.safe.com/fme/html/FME_Desktop_Documentation/FME_ReadersWriters/geojson/geojson.htm">GeoJSON reader</a>.
    </explanation>
  </question>
  <question>
    <p>
      Which of these is not a way to set the format of a translation?
    </p>
    <answer>Typing the format name</answer>
    <answer>Selecting the format from a drop-down list</answer>
    <answer>Browsing for the format in the Reader and Writer Gallery</answer>
    <answer>By selecting a dataset with a known file extension</answer>
    <answer>None of the above (they are all valid ways to set the format)</answer>
    <explanation>
      <p>
        All of these methods are covered in <a href="./1.05.CreatingATranslation.html">Creating a Translation</a>.
      </p>
    </explanation>
  </question>
</quiz>
