# Module Review #

This module introduced you to FME and investigated the basics of FME data translations.

 
## What You Should Have Learned from this Module ##

The following are key points to be learned from this session:

### Theory ###

- FME is a tool to translate and transform spatial data.
Quick Translation is the technique of carrying out a translation with minimum user intervention. The semantic nature of FME is the means by which this is permitted.
- FME Workbench is an application to graphically define a translation and the flow of data within it. This definition is known as a workspace and can be saved to a file for later use.
- The Generate Workspace dialog is the main method by which a *quick translation* can be set up in FME Workbench.
- Data Inspection is a technique for checking and verifying data before, during, and after a translation. The FME Data Inspector is a tool for inspecting data. Multiple datasets – including data from different formats – can be opened within the same view window.

### FME Skills ###

- The ability to start FME Workbench, set up a *quick translation*, and run it
- The ability to start the FME Data Inspector, open a dataset in a new view, and add a dataset to an existing view
- The ability to navigate a dataset and to query features within it
- The ability to control minor FME Data Inspector functionality for debugging data and translations
- The ability to inspect data by redirecting it from FME Workbench to the FME Data Inspector

### Further Reading ###

For further reading why not browse **[articles about data formats](http://blog.safe.com/tag/data-formats)** or **[articles tagged with Data Inspector](http://blog.safe.com/tag/data-inspector)** on our blog? 
