# Exercise - Using Python with FME Server #

### Obtaining the Python Module ###

Follow these steps if you do not already have the Python module you want to reference.

1. To run a Python module, you must reference your own Python interpreter. If you do not have a Python interpreter installed, install one for the application version - either Python 2.7 or Python 3.x - from *https://www.python.org/downloads/* .
2. If you installed a Python 2.7 interpreter, you must also install the pip package management system. (The pip module is included with Python 3.x interpreters).
	- To get pip, securely download the contents of *https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py* .
	- From a command prompt, navigate to the directory to which get-pip.py was downloaded.
	- Run the command: 
		*\> python get-pip.py*
3. Install the package with the following command: 
*\> python -m pip install <package_name> --target C:\Users\<user>\Documents\FME\Plugins\Python*
4. From the *C:\Users\<user>\Documents\FME\Plugins\Python* directory, locate any *.pyc files and the sub-directory that contains the init.pyc and main.pyc files of your package. These files make up the Python module.

### Uploading the Python Module ###

Use the upload tool on the Resources page of the Web User Interface, and upload it to the folder under Engines\Plugins\python that corresponds to the Python release compatible with the module (for example, python27).

### Changing the Python Interpreter ###

For workspaces built with FME Desktop 2016 or later, the Python interpreter you want the FME Engines to use must be specified in the workspace, according to the Python Compatibility workspace parameter.

If you have workspaces built in earlier versions of FME Desktop, and you need these workspaces to reference a different Python interpreter than the default version 2.7, follow this procedure for Windows machines:

1. Open a command prompt, specifying Run as administrator, and run the following commands:
	- *C:/Program Files/FMEServer/Server/fme/fme.exe APPLY_SETTINGS SYSTEM "Python/Use Custom Python" true*
	- *C:/Program Files/FMEServer/Server/fme/fme.exe APPLY_SETTINGS SYSTEM "Python/Python Interpreter" C:/<path\_to\_dll\>/python27.dll*


<!--Tip Section--> 

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-info-circle fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Where do I find the path_to_dll?</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
It depends on how you installed Python, and what your OS is:     
<br><br>    
If you installed 32-bit Python "for all users" on a 32-bit computer, it will be in c:\Windows\System32 
<br>    
If you installed 32-bit Python "for all users" on a 64-bit computer, it will be in c:\Windows\SysWOW64
<br>     
If you installed 64-bit Python "for all users" on a 64-bit computer, it will be in c:\Windows\System32
<br>
If you installed Python “just for me”, it will be in the Python installation folder, for example C:\Python26
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>