# Web Connections #

The Web Connections page lists the web connections you have uploaded to FME Server along with workspaces.

Many workspaces that are run from FME Server require you to connect and authenticate to a web service. For example, a workspace that contains an HTTPCaller transformer may require you to authenticate to a web service, such as Google Fusion Tables, by providing your username and password.

FME Server allows you to securely store and reference the authentication parameters to these web services as self-contained objects, in the same manner as they can be stored in FME Workbench. When you run a workspace from FME Server that requires a web connection, the credentials associated with the stored connection are also referenced, so you do not have to re-enter them.

### Adding Web Connections ###

There are three ways to add web connections:

1. On the Web Connections page: Click New. On the Create Web Connection page, provide a name for the connection, and specify the type of service. Providing the remaining connection and authentication parameters, depending on type. Click OK.
2. On the Web Connections page: Check the box beside an existing connection and click Duplicate. On the Create Web Connection page, provide a name for the connection, and any remaining connection and authentication parameters, depending on the type. Click OK.

##

<!--Tip Section--> 

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-info-circle fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Note</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
You can only add web connections for services to which FME Server is already registered.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

##

<br> 
3. From FME Workbench: When you upload a workspace that contains a web connection to FME Server, you can specify whether to upload the connection along with the workspace. If you choose to upload the connection, it is added to this page.

### Using Web Connections ###

Before you use a web connection for the first time from FME Server, you must authorize it, even if it has already been authorized in the workspace from FME Desktop.

1. Click on the connection to open it.
2. On the Edit page, click Authorize.

### Removing Web Connections ###

Check the box beside one or more connections you want to remove, and click Remove. In the confirmation dialog, click OK.

### Managing Web Connections ###

When you upload a workspace from FME Desktop that contains a web connection, a reference to the associated web service is also uploaded. To see the services that are uploaded, click Manage Web Services. The Web Services page opens. (To remove a web service from this page, select and click Remove).

To use the web services your connections reference, they must be setup to connect with FME Server. There are two ways for this setup to occur:

1. In FME Desktop, when you upload a workspace that contains a web connection, and you complete the Add Service dialog for the service in the Publish to FME Server wizard.
2. Completing (or editing) setup in FME Server:
	* Click Manage Web Services.
 	* On the Web Services page, click on the web service you want to edit.
	* On the Editing Web Services page, specify the service parameters. For most web services, you must provide authorization and connection credentials:
		- Client ID and Client Secret: Credentials associated with an app. You must create an app in the web service and then retrieve the credentials for that app.
		- Redirect URI: A web address that resolves to the location of the fmeoauth web application. If your FME Server is hosted on FME Cloud or another public networks, the default setting is likely correct. If FME Server is on-premises, you will likely need to change the URI. You must set the correct Redirect URI in the app you have created.
			* If your FME Server is configured to access web services through an entry in a public DNS service, use the Redirect URI generated from the service.
			* If your FME Server is configured to access web services through a DMZ, use the Redirect URI (https://<host\>:<port\>/fmeoauth) for the custom installation of the fmeoauth web service on the public machine.
	* Click OK.