# Module Review

This module introduced you to FME Server’s Self-Serve Services and related functionality in FME Workbench.

## What You Should Have Learned from this Module ##

The following are key points to be learned from this module.

### Theory ###

- Services handle communication between FME Server and its clients. Each workspace published to FME Server can be registered with any number of services.
- The Data Download service overrides the destination dataset parameter and presents data to the end-user as a link to a zip file.
- Parameters control the different actions of a Data Download system, including the output coordinate system.
- The Generic Writer is a writer whose format is only defined at run time. This can be provided by the user through a published parameter.
- Selection of source data by layer is achieved using the Feature Types to Read parameter

### FME Skills ###

- The ability to publish a workspace and register it to the FME Server Data Download service
- The ability to create and use published parameters
- The ability to give the end-user control over format, coordinate system, and layers


## Further Reading ##

For further reading why not check out [**this guide to sharing open data**](http://blog.safe.com/2016/05/open-data-portals/) using FME Server, or [**this fine blog article**](http://blog.safe.com/2016/05/how-to-build-a-data-downloader-with-leaflet-and-fme-cloud/) that explores how to implement an open-data portal using FME, Amazon S3, Leaflet, JQuery, and a whole lot more!
