# Chapter Review #

This chapter introduced you to FME Server security.

## What You Should Have Learned from this Module ##

**Theory**

[comment]: <> - **Users** are the individual accounts that access FME Server.
[comment]: <> - **Roles** are comprised of one or more users.
[comment]: <> - Default roles and accounts are created when FME Server is installed, but you can also add your own.
[comment]: <> - You can integrate your organization's Active Directory users and groups into FME Server.
[comment]: <> - The **Trusted User Account** provides unauthenticated access to any component of FME Server.
[comment]: <> - FME Server Windows Services can be changed to any **Service Account** to allow network access.
- FME Server can be configured for HTTPS, supporting both CA-issued and self-signed certificates.
- Understanding the flexibility and limitations of adding engines to existing and new machines.
- You can change your database provider at any time. PostgreSQL, Microsoft SQL Server, and Oracle databases are supported with FME Server.
- FME Server can encrypt all the data in the FME Server Database


**FME Skills**

[comment]: <> - The ability to create a new user and assign permissions.
- The ability to create a connection to an Active Directory server and import users and roles.
- The ability to change the FME Server Database provider
- The ability to encrypt the communication between the client and server machines with HTTPS.
- The ability to create custom encryption keys for the FME Server database
