###  1.3 Authorization and Authentication

Security is always a significant consideration when working with any
online service. The REST API works with security in two ways:
authorization and authentication.

- **Authentication** proves that the user is
who they say they are.
- **Authorization** verifies that the user is
authorized to make the call.

Most calls to FME Server require authorization. The REST API uses
tokens to prove the user is permitted to make the call to the server. A token is a string of encrypted information that is sent between the
client and the server. Token Security will not be as secure as other
methods, as the security of the system depends on controlling access to
the tokens.

When replacing &lt;yourServerHost&#62; with your hostname, you can use localhost if you are working on the machine where FME Server is installed. If you are accessing from a remote machine, you need to specify an accessible URL either by IP address or server hostname.

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-bolt fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">NEW</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
Token management has been dramatically updated in 2019.0! Before, a token was tied directly to a users account and a user could only hold a single token at once. However, in 2019.0 a single user can have many tokens and directly control what that token has access to. This is an easier system and makes the token system much more secure.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

<!--Warning Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-exclamation-triangle fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">WARNING</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
Tokens can hold a lot of power. To guarantee the security of FME Server, ensure a token's permissions are configured so that it can be used only for its intended purpose, such as running a particular workspace.    
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
