{% import "../includes/templates.html" as template %}

{{ template.exercise("3.2b",
               "Locating Transformers",
               "3-1-1 case location details (XLS hosted on FTP)",
               "Find a transformer to fix inconsistent data",
               "Using Transformer Gallery and Quick Add",
               "C:\\FMEData2018\\Workspaces\\IntroToDesktop\\Ex3.2-Begin.fmw",
               "C:\\FMEData2018\\Workspaces\\IntroToDesktop\\Ex3.2-Complete.fmw")
}}

In [Exercise 2.2](..\2.translations\2.05.ex2.2.md), we found that some of our values for the `Local Area` attribute were inconsistent. In this exercise, you will use your new knowledge of transformer searching to find an appropriate transformer to address this problem. As we just covered, there are many options for searching for transformers. In this case, we need a transformer that can find specific text strings in an attribute and replace them with another value. Specifically, we want to find values of `Local Area` and replace them as such:

|Find|Replace|
|-|-|
|Dunbar Southlands|Dunbar-Southlands|
|Arbutus Ridge|Arbutus-Ridge|

Use the resources available (Transformer Gallery in Workbench, [Transformer Gallery online](https://www.safe.com/transformers/), the [FME Transformer Reference Guide](http://cdn.safe.com/resources/fme/FME-Transformer-Reference-Guide.pdf), and Quick Add search) to find such a transformer. Then, add it to your workspace after the Tester, edit its parameters, run your workspace, and inspect the results to ensure your changes were successful.

Ok, go for it! When you have found your solution, go to the next page to check your answer.

If you want some additional hints, click below:

{% collapse title="Hint 1" %}

It is possible to do this operation with a single transformer, but if you can't find it, try doing it with multiple transformers.

{% endcollapse %}

{% collapse title="Hint 2" %}

The transformer you are looking for begins with Attribute.

{% endcollapse %}

{% collapse title="Hint 3" %}

Try searching Quick Add or the Transformer Gallery for some keywords describing the desired operation. Remember that pressing <kbd>Tab</kbd> while searching Quick Add will search transformer descriptions as well as names. These might be helpful:

- Find
- Attribute
- Map

{% endcollapse %}

# Additional Resources

If you have used the above resources and are still having trouble, try looking on the [FME Knowledge Center](http://knowledge.safe.com). Have you tried browsing transformers in the [Strings category](https://www.safe.com/transformers/#/category/Strings) of the Transformer Gallery?
