# Managing Attributes #
A high proportion of the top 25 transformers are support transformers for managing attributes. These create new attributes, rename them, set values, and delete them.

A key use for these transformers is to rename attributes for the purpose of schema mapping.

---

## Attribute Managing Transformers ##

The key attribute-management tasks and the transformers that can be used are as follows:


<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<th style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Task</span></th>
<th style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Transformers</th>
</tr>
<tr><td style="text-align:center">Create Attributes</td><td>AttributeCreator, AttributeManager, AttributeRenamer</td></tr>
<tr><td style="text-align:center">Set Attribute Values</td><td>AttributeCopier, AttributeCreator, AttributeManager, AttributeRenamer</td></tr>
<tr><td style="text-align:center">Remove Attributes</td><td>AttributeKeeper, AttributeManager, AttributeRemover, BulkAttributeRemover</td></tr>
<tr><td style="text-align:center">Rename Attributes</td><td>AttributeManager, AttributeRenamer</td></tr>
<tr><td style="text-align:center">Copy Attributes</td><td>AttributeCopier, AttributeCreator, AttributeManager</td></tr>
<tr><td style="text-align:center">Sort Attributes</td><td>AttributeManager</td></tr>
<tr><td style="text-align:center">Change Attribute Case</td><td>BulkAttributeRenamer</td></tr>
<tr><td style="text-align:center">Add Prefixes/Suffixes</td><td>BulkAttributeRenamer</td></tr>
</table>

Many of these transformers can carry out similar operations, and you can see that the AttributeManager does so many tasks you can use it almost exclusively. 

---

<!--Warning Section--> 

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-exclamation-triangle fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">WARNING</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
Don't misunderstand the BulkAttributeRenamer. It changes the case - or adds suffixes/prefixes - to the attribute <strong>name</strong>, not the attribute value.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## Lists ##
A List in FME is a mechanism that allows multiple values per attribute.

For example, the attribute myAttribute can only contain a single value.

However, the list attribute myList{}.myAttribute can contain multiple values as:

<pre>
myList{0}.myAttribute
myList{1}.myAttribute
myList{2}.myAttribute
etc.
</pre>

There are various transformers designed to operate specifically on lists - they can be found in the Lists category of the transformer gallery - and list functionality is built into other transformers (such as the AttributeCreator) too.

