# Module Review #
This module introduced you to the concept of Data Transformation and explained how to use FME Workbench for more than just quick translations.

 
## What You Should Have Learned from this Module ##
The following are key points to be learned from this session:

### Theory ###

- A Schema describes a dataset’s structure, including its feature types, attributes, and geometries.
- Schema Editing is the act of editing the destination schema to better define what is required out of the translation.
- The act of joining the source schema to the destination is called Schema Mapping. Differences between the two schemas lead to Structural Transformation.
- Content Transformation is the modifying of data content during a translation. In FME Workbench data transformation is carried out using objects called Transformers, which can be found in the Transformer Gallery.
- Groups can be created using the Group-By option in a transformer’s parameters dialog.
- Splitting data into multiple streams creates multiple copies and not a division of data. Bringing together multiple streams combines the data, rather than merges it.


### FME Skills ###

- The ability to edit a Writer schema
- The ability to restructure data by mapping a Reader to a Writer schema, both manually and through transformers
- The ability to locate transformers in Workbench and use them to transform data content
- The ability to define feature groups using the Group-By option
- The ability to reproject data using Workbench
