# Data Transformation Quiz

Each section ends with a quiz to test your new knowledge. Make your selection and click "Check my answers" to check each individual question. If you want an explanation for the answer, click "Explain".

**Note**: your score won't be tallied; this is just for review purposes.

<quiz name="">
  <question>
    <p>
    What is the most common format translation defined with FME is from Esri Shapefile to which format?
    </p>
    <answer correct>Esri Shapefile</answer>
    <answer>AutoCAD DWG</answer>
    <answer>Microsoft SQL</answer>
    <answer>GeoJSON</answer>
    <answer>Google KML</answer>
    <answer>Apple IMDF</answer>
    <explanation>The most common translation is from Esri Shapefile TO Esri Shapefile! It just proves how many people use FME for data transformation instead of format translation.</explanation>
  </question>

  <question>
    <p>
    Which three colors represent checked, need checking, and unset parameters on transformer objects?
    </p>
    <answer>yellow, orange, green</answer>
    <answer>black, orange, purple</answer>
    <answer>green, yellow, red</answer>
    <answer correct>blue, yellow, red</answer>
    <explanation>Blue indicates the parameter was checked, yellow indicates the parameter needs checking and red indicates the parameters are unset.</explanation>
  </question>

  <question>
    <p>
      If I use a transformer to remove irregularities (like self-intersecting loops) in the boundary of a polygon, what type of transformation is it?
    </p>
    <answer>Structural Transformation of attributes</answer>
    <answer>Structural Transformation of geometry</answer>
    <answer>Content Transformation of attributes</answer>
    <answer correct>Content Transformation of geometry</answer>
    <explanation>Loops are geometry and cleaning them is a transformation of their content.</explanation>
  </question>


  <question multiple>
    <p>
    Which of the following transformers do you think is "group-based"?
    </p>
    <answer>StringFormatter</answer>
    <answer correct>Clipper</answer>
    <answer>Rotator</answer>
    <answer>AttributeRounder</answer>
    <answer correct>Dissolver</answer>
    <explanation>
      <p>
      These transformers can group the features based on an attribute then perform their action.
      </p>
    </explanation>
  </question>
</quiz>
