# Backup and Migration #

Before proceeding with the primary task of backing up your FME Server configuration, we recommend manually backing up the FME Server Configuration Files to a location outside of your FME Server installation directory, in case you need to refer to them later. These files contain configurations for the FME Server Database, Job Routing, and miscellaneous settings for the Transformation and Repository Managers. These configurations are not included in the primary backup procedure. To restore any changes that were made in these files, you must be able to refer to them when the upgrade is complete, so that you can make the corresponding changes in the replacement file.

### Which FME Server Configuration Components are Migrated? ###

The following components of your FME Server are migrated:

- Repositories and the items stored in them, including workspaces, custom transformers, custom formats, templates, and resources. Any designations by users of a repository item as a ‘favorite’ are also migrated.
- FME Server Services.
- Notifications components, including Topics, Subscriptions, and Publications.
- Security configuration, including Users, Roles, and tokens.
- Schedules.
- Resources, which include the following:
	-	Resources whose definitions and files are both stored with FME Server, and are configured for migration. By default, the DATA, ENGINE, and DASHBOARD Resources are configured for migration. To determine if your resource folders are migratable, open the FME Server configuration file located at *C:\Program Files\FMEServer\Server\fmeServerConfig.txt*. Locate your resources under *FME SERVER SETTINGS START > Shared Resource Management*. Resources with a *SHAREDRESOURCE_ISMIGRATABLE\_** value of TRUE are migratable.
	- Online resources whose definitions are only stored with FME Server, but whose files are stored outside FME Server. In the current version of FME Server, these resources are limited to any Amazon Web Service (AWS) S3 bucket connections that are defined. Only connection definitions are migrated (such as bucket names and authentication parameters). The files contained within S3 buckets are not stored on FME Server.
- Database Connections and Web Connections.

---

<!--Miss Vector Section--> 

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-info-circle fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Miss Vector says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
Resource folders containing large amounts of data require considerable time to back up, and result in large configuration files. It is recommended that you define large folders as non-migratable. Following backup and restore, manually migrate these folders to the new FME Server. Alternatively, host big data on a UNC path, then point the new FME Server to that path.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

### Performing a Scheduled Backup of an FME Server Configuration ###

Beginning with FME Server 2013, a workspace is provided that can be scheduled to perform a backup of the Server configuration to an FME Feature Store (FFS) file. The configuration backup includes repositories, services, notifications, security settings and schedules.

The following parameters are specific to the Backup_Configuration schedule:

- *FME Server Username*: The user performing the backup. The user must belong to the *fmesuperuser* role.
- *FME Server Password*: Password of the user.
- *Backup File (FSS)*: The file to store the backup. The location must be accessible by the engine running the workspace. It can refer to an UNC path.
- *Backup Password*: Password to access the backup file.
- *Append Date*: If YES, the date and time of the backup is appended to the filename.