# Projects #

Use the *Projects* page to bring together FME Server items into groups that share a common solution, or 'project', in your organization. By grouping items in projects, you can reference them in one easy place. You can also backup projects and restore them to another instance of FME Server.

### What Can a Project Hold? ###

A project can include just about and FME Server object you create or upload, including:

- Workspaces, custom formats, custom transformers, and templates
- Repositories
- Schedules
- Topics, subscriptions, and publications
- Resources
- Resource Connections (currently includes any connections to Amazon Web Services (AWS) S3 buckets that appear on the *Resources* page)
- Cleanup Tasks
- Database connections and web connections
- Users
- Other projects

---

<!--miss vector Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Miss Vector says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
To add users to a project, you must belong to the </span> <span style="font-family:serif; font-style:bold; font-size:larger">fmesuperuser </span><span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">role.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

### Backup and Restore a Project ###

You can backup the contents of a project, and restore the project to the same instance, or another instance, of FME Server. For example, you can migrate a project when you are ready to use it on a production server after you have developed and tested its contents on a separate system.

### Migrating Projects for Other Users (fmesuperuser only)

When you include users in a project, you can backup and restore a project for those users to work with on another system. Any permissions a user has on the current system are granted on the system to which the project is restored, if both of the following conditions are true:

- The permission is on an item in the project.
- The permission was granted to the user directly, rather than through membership in a role.

Any other permissions a user has on the current system do not carry over.

### Viewing and Editing Projects ###

To view or edit a project, click on it to open the *Edit* page. Or, select the project and click **Edit**. You can:

- Edit the project name and description.
- Add and remove items.
- Get information about items: Select an item under *Contents* and click the information icon to the far right for item details.