# Performance and FME

Performance means producing the results you need as efficiently as possible.

## What do we mean by Performance? ##

According to [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_performance), performance is a measure of the amount of useful work accomplished relative to the time and resources used.

In FME terms, good performance is the ability to process spatial and tabular data with the correct results (useful) as fast as possible (time) and using as few system resources – like memory – as possible.


## What Can Impair Performance? ##

There are a number of factors – you might call them *bottlenecks* – that can cause FME to run slower than you might hope. Most of the content of this chapter covers how to overcome or relieve these factors.


### Excessive Disk Operations ###

Physical disk drive throughput is relatively slow compared to other computing processes; therefore the more FME has to read and write to a physical disk drive, the more performance is impaired. The best performance comes from storing temporary data in memory, rather than on disk.

### Underuse of Resources ###

Performance can be impaired when an FME translation is not using all of the available system resources. For example, there are few licensing limits to prevent FME from using all of the CPU cores on a system, and more memory resources are available to 64-bit FME than 32-bit.

### Excessive Data Amounts ###

If performance is described as the amount of “useful” work, then nothing is going to impair performance more than unnecessary processing. The more excess information that gets read, and the further it is carried into the workspace, the less useful the work is and the more performance will suffer.

---

<!--Person X Says Section-->
<!--Jake Speedie is the representative for this chapter-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Jake Speedie says…</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
Hi, I'm Jake Speedie and I'm here to power you through this section on FME performance.
<br><br>I read that if RAM was a jet plane flying at Mach 1.5, then the equivalent disk access would be a banana slug, travelling at 0.007mph; the difference is that much!
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>