**Configuration and Setup Information**

This part of the log file tells us vital information about FME’s version and configuration, the system resources and how FME intends to use them, and what system paths are being used.

For example, here you can see which version of FME is being used, its license type, and the machine name. If you do have multiple FME versions installed, here’s where you can check to ensure the correct one is running.

Further on we can see that the system has nearly 108GB of free space and 4 GB of virtual memory (the maximum possible on 32-bit). We can also see what operating system we are running FME on and what the current language and encoding settings are:

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-bolt fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">NEW</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
In FME2015 measurements of disk and memory are now given in the most appropriate units,
quite often GB and TB, rather than MB.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

Then comes important information about the system resources and FME’s memory management:

In this case there is a limit of 4GB memory per process, indicative of 32-bit processing, out of 24GB of total memory for the machine. The following numbers indicate how FME will manage memory resources. It will use nearly 3GB of memory and then it will start to release memory by caching features to disk. This caching will stop once memory use is less than about 2GB.

This way FME will perform to its potential automatically, while not taking so much memory that the system may fail or other processes on the system would suffer.

Of course, when run on 64-bit FME, the numbers will be slightly different, illustrating the benefits of this platform:




**Default Paths**

One of the most important paths to examine is the one for temporary folder. When memory resources become low and FME starts to cache to disk, the temporary folder is where it will write data to:

Firstly it’s important to ensure this folder does have enough temporary disk space and secondly it’s useful if the disk being written to is both fast and unused by any other process. It will not, for example, help performance to share the temporary disk with the operating system.