**Assessing Writer Performance**

Assessing the speed of writing can be similarly difficult to assessing the speed of reading; again the reason is the same: FME starts writing data as soon as it becomes available, and doesn’t necessarily wait until processing is done.

Take the previous workspace, which read a set of address points and found their nearest neighbor, but now has a Writer too:

According to the log file, we find that the output dataset is open for writing before the source dataset has even finished being read!

Opened Shape File C:\FMEData2015\Output\PostalAddress.shp for output

Opened DBF File 'C:\FMEData2015\Output\PostalAddress.dbf' for output

DBF Writer: Writing DBF File using character encoding 'ANSI'

Reading source feature # 5000
Reading source feature # 7500
Reading source feature # 10000
Reading source feature # 12500

Plainly it’s harder to isolate the Writers to check how fast they are operating; you can’t just disable everything else in the workspace without preventing anything from happening.

However, it can be done with a two-step process. Firstly you would add a Recorder transformer – after all other transformation has taken place – to preserve the data in FFS format at the moment it is about to be written:

Now replace the Recorder with a Player transformer – to re-read the preserved FFS data – and disable everything else up to that point.

Now the data will be played back into the workspace, and is followed up by being written to the output.

In this example the "Emptying Factory Pipeline" message appeared after 7.2 seconds and the translation took 8.9 seconds in total, indicating 1.7 seconds was spent writing data.

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Jake Speedie says…</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
“Be aware that fanouts will complicate your view of the log, not to
mention slow the process somewhat.
For example, if I do a Dataset Fanout on the above workspace, FME creates a separate
Writer for each fanned-out dataset.
Firstly this causes a performance hit – because FME has to cache all the output data and
create multiple Writers – and additionally I get a section of log for each output dataset.”
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

