The city has an online service powered by FME Server, where a resident can input their postal code and receive information about their garbage collection.

The system works, but is perhaps slower than it should be. Let’s run this short exercise to discover why.

**1)** Start Workbench

Open the workspace C:\FMEData2015\Workspaces\DesktopAdvanced\Exercise2d-Begin.fmw

The workspace used for the service looks something like this:

This shows the workspace is reading 13,500+ addresses and filtering out ones that don’t match the required postal code. However, it makes sense to use a WHERE clause if possible, so we don’t have to read so much data to start with.

**2)** Run Workspace

To get a comparison, run the workspace. The statistics for features read will look like this:

The performance will read like this:

*FME Session Duration: 4.3 seconds. (CPU: 4.0s user, 0.2s system)*

*END - ProcessID: 103496, peak process memory usage: 79428 kB*

**3)** Open Feature Type Properties

The Geodatabase Reader doesn’t have a WHERE clause, but the feature type does.

So, open the properties dialog for the PostalAddress feature type and click the Format Parameters tab.

In the WHERE Clause parameter enter: POSTALCODE = 'V6E1Y8.'

**4)** Delete Tester

Now we have the WHERE clause, the Tester transformer is no longer required, so delete it.

**5)** Re-Run Workspace

Re-run the workspace. This time only 4 features are read from the database (because 4 addresses match that postal code). The performance improves accordingly:

*FME Session Duration: 0.6 seconds. (CPU: 0.4s user, 0.2s system)*

*END - ProcessID: 99108, peak process memory usage: 84404 kB*

Memory usage hasn’t improved, but the translation ran 80% faster.