Here we have a prototype workspace that processes a dataset of cell phone signals. The dataset contains a series of recordings that show how strong the cell signal is at different locations.

The idea is to filter out locations that receive a really poor signal, tag them with the neighborhood they belong to – to show which neighborhoods have poor coverage – and write the rest of the data out as a series of attribute-less data points.

However, the workspace runs perhaps a little slower than it could, which is bad news when this is just the prototype and we wish to eventually run it on the entire country’s cell data. First of all let’s check the workspace and deconstruct its log to find out what is happening.

**1)** Start Workbench

Open the workspace C:\FMEData2015\Workspaces\DesktopAdvanced\Exercise2a-Begin.fmw.

Notice there are two key feature types: one for the cell signals in CSV format, the other for the Neighborhood boundaries in KML format. They each have their own set of attributes:

There are also three transformers – two to attach the neighborhood and then filter the data – then two Writers, to write the data out to a final dataset. One has a few attributes, the other none.

The third transformer is a Logger that is recording features to the log.

Don’t run the workspace yet – we don’t know how long it might take!!!

**2)** Open Log File

Now start up a text editor and open up the log file for inspection.

You can find it at: C:\FMEData\Workspaces\DesktopAdvanced\Exercise2a-OriginalLog.log

Let’s look for some of the indicators as to how this workspace is performing.

Firstly the configuration section tells us that the user is working with FME2015 (beta) with a fixed license, Smallworld Edition.

**INFORM|FME 2015 Beta (20141202 - Build 15223 - WIN32)*

*INFORM|FME_HOME is 'C:\apps\FME2015\'*

*INFORM|FME Desktop Smallworld Edition (floating)*

*INFORM|Permanent License.**

As a beta build there may be an advantage to upgrading to a newer FME version (although not
as much as there might be if the user was using FME2011, perhaps).

Now look for the more important performance indicators:

*INFORM|System Status: 105.46 GB of disk space available in the FME temporary folder (C:\Users\imark\AppData\Local\Temp)*

*INFORM|System Status: 4.00 GB of virtual memory available*

*INFORM|Operating System: Microsoft Windows 7 64-bit Service Pack 1 (Build 7601)*

*INFORM|FME Platform: WIN32 And the resource manager parameters:*

*INFORM|FME Configuration: Process limit is 4.00 GB (out of 24.00 GB physical memory and 4.00 GB address space)*

*INFORM|FME Configuration: Start freeing memory when process usage exceeds 2.83 GB of memory or 3.41 GB of address space*

*INFORM|FME Configuration: Stop freeing memory when process usage is below 2.12 GB of memory and 2.56 GB of address space*

*INFORM|FME Configuration: Autodetermining optimal maximum number of objects in memory*

There is plenty of disk space and adequate memory. We’re on a 64-bit platform but only using 32-bit FME, which is a bit disappointing as there is 25 GB of memory, but we can perhaps let that go.

Let’s skip to the foot of the log now and see how long it took to run and how much memory was consumed at the peak:

*INFORM|FME Session Duration: 4 minutes 1.0 seconds. (CPU: 185.7s user, 50.4s system)*

*INFORM|END - ProcessID: 96656, peak process memory usage: 3065096 kB, current process memory usage: 652096 kB*

Two things are a worry there. The system time seems high (50.4 seconds) considering we’re reading/writing local files and not a database.

The peak memory is also worrying. It’s close to – if not above – the amount required for FME to start releasing memory and reorganizing data. In fact if we scan the log content:

*INFORM|Finished clipping 558250 / 872545 clippees against all clippers*

*INFORM|ResourceManager: Optimizing Memory Usage. Please wait...*

*INFORM|Finished clipping group 1 / 2*

*INFORM|Finished clipping 569200 / 872545 clippees against all clippers*

So we can see that FME had to start optimizing memory usage. It probably resulted in some disk caching, and that might be the cause of the high system time.

**3)** Run Workspace

It's important to note that, because of different machine specifications, you may get vastly different results to this log. That's fine; the important part is the techniques used, not the exact timings. When you run this workspace, if you think your computer may be slower than average, you can reduce the amount of data being processing by changing the source dataset to "CellSignals2015-Lite.csv". Memory Optimization, in particular, may work differently depending on what other applications you have running at the same time.

Anyway, run the workspace. Obviously you can expect that it will take approximately 4 minutes to complete on a 32-bit machine. Do your results match what occurred in the above log file?

If you have access to 64-bit FME, then why not try it to see if the performance improves. Notice that there’s no problem in opening the same workspace in 32-bit and 64-bit FME. Workbench is the same; it’s just how the workspace is run that is different.

**NB:** **On my machine the use of 64-bit FME improves the performance considerably:*

*INFORM|FME Session Duration: 2 minutes 59.3 seconds. (CPU: 161.8s user, 12.1s system)*

*INFORM|END - ProcessID: 95448, peak process memory usage: 6202968 kB, current process memory usage: 5287992 kB*

*Notice how the time used is about 1 minute less, and the amount of time used by the system (e.g. for reading and writing files) is reduced by about 90%*

*The amount of memory usage has increased, indicating that the 32-bit FME was having problems with an excess of data and had to resort to disk caching.**

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Jake Speedie says…</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
“In case you’re interested, the cell phone power values appear to be in
dBm units – which is Decibel-Milliwatts. So now you know!”
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>