Let’s continue to work on the workspace that processes a dataset of cell phone signals.
Remember, because of different specifications, your experience may be greatly different to what is described here.

Now we’ve deconstructed the log, let’s start to clean up any performance issues with the Readers and Writers.

**1)** Start Workbench

Open the workspace C:\FMEData2015\Workspaces\DesktopAdvanced\Exercise2b-Begin.fmw
(or stick with Exercise2a-Begin.fmw if you have it open – it’s the same workspace).

The first thing we should do is ensure we’re logging all the required timestamps. So select Tools > FME Options from the menubar in Workbench.

Click on the Runtime icon. Ensure that the Log File Defaults has “Log timestamp information” turned on.

Since the workspace doesn’t fail – it’s just a little slow – we aren’t debugging anything so you can turn off “Log debugging information” (assuming it was already turned on).

**2)** Assess Readers

Let’s first assess how well the Readers are doing their job. It might be that they aren’t really the bottleneck in our workspace.

First check the original log file for the Emptying Factory Pipeline message.

*2014-12-08 10:48:28| 60.2| 0.0|INFORM|MULTI_READER(MULTI_READER): Done reading 872554 features from 3 readers*

*2014-12-08 10:48:28| 60.2| 0.0|INFORM|Emptying factory pipeline*

It occurs after 60.2 seconds, about 25% of the total translation time. But let’s see if that’s accurate.

Select all of the objects after the feature types (i.e. transformers and Writer feature types).

Press Ctrl+E to disable them (Ctrl+E is a toggle to Enable/Disable)

The workspace now looks like this:

Run the workspace. The data will be read, but not processed or written.

Check the time taken to do this. On my machine the result is this:

*INFORM|FME Session Duration: 45.3 seconds. (CPU: 37.9s user, 0.4s system)*

*INFORM|END - ProcessID: 97468, peak process memory usage: 85344 kB, current process memory usage: 83164 kB*

So it’s actually a little quicker than the full translation suggests – not surprisingly FME is starting to process that data as it is being read. Still, we might improve on that somehow.

**3) **Check Data Filtering

The workspace is filtering data with a Tester. Is there any way that we could improve on our reading time by carrying out this test directly on the source data?

Firstly, we want all the data spatially, so there’s no use in setting any Search Envelope parameters. In any case the CSV data is not – initially – spatial and has no such parameters.

Secondly, could we apply that test to the data as it is being read? Well, neither Reader has a WHERE clause field, as neither is a database. The CSV Reader does have filter parameters, but they are regular expressions for text fields, and it would be difficult to filter on a number:

**4)** Check Other Reader Issues - 1

Are there any other issues with the Readers that might be slowing performance? Yes, there are!

Firstly, notice that the KML Reader that is reading the neighborhood data also includes a whole number of feature types that we aren’t interested in.

The only feature type we need is Neighborhoods, and that’s already connected into the Clipper transformer.

All the other feature types are producing data we don’t need. They might not be slowing us much, but they certainly won’t be speeding up the translation.

So, we should select all unconnected feature types on the canvas and delete them. The quickest way to do this is select Tools > Remove Unattached from the menubar and click OK.

**5)** Check Other Reader Issues - 2

Another oddity with our Readers is that there are three listed in the Navigator window, but only two used on the canvas.

The Addresses [FILEGDB] Reader seems to be reading data that we don’t want and don’t use.
It’s what I call a “dangling” Reader, one without feature types. Expand the Reader in the Navigator window to prove that there are no feature types.

Having satisfied yourself of that fact, click on the Reader and press the delete key to remove it.
Now run the workspace again to see if reading is any quicker.

*INFORM|FME Session Duration: 38.2 seconds. (CPU: 37.0s user, 0.4s system)*

*INFORM|END - ProcessID: 88220, peak process memory usage: 80740 kB, current process memory usage: 78560 kB*

On my computer it shaves about 7 seconds (15%) of the time off reading, which is a good start.

**6)** Check Writer Performance

We won’t check the time being taken to write the data, just look for the only obvious improvement: the order of the Writers.

As mentioned, the best way to improve Writer performance is to ensure the Writer receiving the largest amount of data appears first in the Navigator window.

In this workspace there are two Writers. One writes the problem (ColdSpot) locations. The other writes the good locations:

OK, the Writer with the most features is not currently top of the Writers list. Let’s fix that.

Right-click on the GoodLocations Writer in the Navigator window and choose the option Move Up.

Now that Writer should appear above the other in the Navigator:

Re-enable any components of the workspace that were disabled, and run the full translation again. Remember, the original log reports the following results:

*INFORM|FME Session Duration: 4 minutes 1.0 seconds. (CPU: 185.7s user, 50.4s system)*

*INFORM|END - ProcessID: 96656, peak process memory usage: 3065096 kB*

Now, on my computer, I get the following:

*INFORM|FME Session Duration: 2 minutes 44.1 seconds. (CPU: 151.9s user, 8.9s system)*

*INFORM|END - ProcessID: 98972, peak process memory usage: 1734748 kB*

That’s way better. I’ve reduced the time taken by 40% from the original. Additionally, peak memory use has dropped by 50%!

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-bolt fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">NEW</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
In FME2015 there is a new workspace parameter called "Order Writers By" that will
let you adjust the order in which Writers are initialized; either by the order of
Writers in the Navigator (as described here) or by the order features arrive at the
Writers.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
