# Translation Results

It’s easy to check whether a workspace ran correctly or not

**Translation Result**

When the workspace has been run through the FME Server web user interface, you’ll get a result that you can see immediately:

Here, for example, a workspace has been run and completed successfully.

Job Management

When you come back to check on a previous translation you can check the Jobs item on the menu. There are tabs for Queued, Running, and Completed translations.

Here you can see that two workspaces have completed successfully, and one failed:

**Log File**

When you click on a job in the job queue it opens a dialog with more detailed information about the results of the job:

You can then click the Log tab to check the log file and find even more information about the translation itself. This log is equivalent to the log shown in the FME Workbench log window:

The log is obviously of most use where the translation has been flagged as failed:

There is also a button labelled Download Log where you can download the file if necessary.

<table style="border-spacing: 0px;border-collapse: collapse;font-family:serif">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-cogs fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold">Exercise 2D </span>
</td>
<td style="border: 2px solid darkorange;background-color:darkorange;color:white">
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold">Checking the Result</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Scenario</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">Airphoto Data Vendor</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Data</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">GeoTiff Orthophotos</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Overall Goal</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">Checking the previous translation</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Demonstrates</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">FME Server translation results</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Starting Workspace</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">n/a</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Finished Workspace</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">n/a</td>
</tr>

</table>

Having run a workspace, now let’s look at the job history details. This will confirm the workspace ran to completion and produced the correct results.

**1) Examine the Job History**

Click on Manage then Jobs in the Web User Interface.
This will open a page with three tabs: Completed, Queued, and Running.

There should not be any queued or running jobs so click on the Completed tab to see a view of the latest completed jobs. Each job item represents one run of one workspace and includes details such a Status, Workspace Name etc.

**2. Examine Last Job**

Click on the latest job which will be at the top of the list and should be the workspace you ran using the Job Submitter Service in Exercise 2c.

Information is available under one of a number of tabs: Status, Request Data, Result Data, Log.

Click on each tab in turn to inspect the information.

The Request Data tab shows the values used for each published parameter when the workspace was run.

Look at the values for the parameters DestDataset_JPEG and SourceDataset_GEOTIFF, both of which should point to the resource directory represented by an environment variable such as $(FME_SHAREDRESOURCE_DATE)

**3. Examine the FME Log File**

Under the Log tab, click the Download Log button. This will download the FME log to a file.

Examine the log to see how it compares to a log file generated by FME Workbench. It should look very similar. The main differences are the Command line arguments, which include parameters specific to FME Server.

**4. Examine Output Folder**

Under the Resources menu browse to the Output folder and confirm the data has been written.