
Here we have a workspace that was created to translate a parks dataset from MapInfo to KML, plus also write an XML metadata file to show who translated the data and when.

At the moment, all of the XML metadata fields are hard-coded in an AttributeCreator transformer. We’ll need to create user parameters to take the place of these hard-coded values.

**1) **Start Workbench

Open the workspace C:\FMEData2015\Workspaces\DesktopAdvanced\Exercise1a-Begin.fmw.

Notice the transformers in the workspace.

The Sampler ensures that only one record is written to the output metadata, by discarding all but one feature.

The AttributeCreator creates a set of attributes and the DateFormatter formats the date attribute to an XML-compatible ISO format.

Open the parameters dialog for each transformer in turn. These are FME parameters, set by the workspace author and not available to the end-user.

Here are the parameters for the DateFormatter:

You can also find the same parameters in the Navigator window:

**2) **Change XML Writer Parameter

As a workspace author we need to change one of the Writer parameters. We don’t want the end-user to be setting this, so we’ll set it ourselves and not create a user parameter.

In the Navigator window locate the XML Writer. Expand the parameters list. Locate the parameter labelled Pretty Print and double-click on it.

In the dialog that opens, change the value to Yes and then click OK to close the dialog. We have now changed an FME parameter.

**3)** Create User Parameter

We now need to create some user parameters for the end-user to enter information into the workspace.

Firstly, locate the User Parameters section of the Navigator window, right-click on it, and choose the option to Add Parameter:

In the new dialog, select Text as the type of parameter to create (there will be more on parameter types in the next section). Each parameter needs a name, so call this one UserNameParam. Now enter a prompt, such as "Enter your name."

Click OK to close the dialog and create the parameter, which will now appear in the Navigator window.

**4)** Create Remaining User Parameters

Repeat the previous step twice more, this time creating parameters called UserEmailParam and UserCompanyParam.

The prompts should be “Enter your email address” and "Enter your company name."

When done the Navigator window looks like this:

**5) **Use User Parameter – Method 1

There are a number of ways to extract the value from a user parameter into a workspace. We’ll use a different way for each parameter, just to illustrate the different methods.

So, firstly open the parameters dialog for the AttributeCreator. This transformer is what currently creates the attributes for the output.

Click in the Value field for the AuthorName attribute. Click on the drop-down arrow, then select User Parameter > UserNameParam.

Once done the value field will change to a special icon and show the parameter that was chosen:

While in this dialog, click on the AuthorEmail and AuthorCompany fields, and press the minus button to delete them. That's just so we can demonstrate dealing with these a different way:

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Ms. Analyst says…</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
“Did you notice the UpdateDate attribute is set to a value of “TODAY”?
When processed by the DateFormatter it will be turned into whatever the
current date is.
Similar relative date values can also be used, such as “Yesterday,” “Tomorrow,” or “Last
Thursday”
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

**6)** Use User Parameter – Method 2

A second way to extract the value from a user parameter is with a ParameterFetcher transformer.

Place a ParameterFetcher transformer (after the DateFormatter is fine). Open the parameters dialog.

Select UserEmailParam as the parameter to fetch. Enter AuthorEmail as the name of the target attribute:

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Ms. Analyst says…</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
“Did you notice that the list of parameters includes
many FME-related system parameters?
These are particularly useful for use on FME Server.”
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

**7)** Use User Parameter – Method 3

The final method to extract the value from a user parameter is with a schema attribute value.

To achieve this, locate the metadata feature type on the canvas and right-click the AuthorCompany attribute.

Then select the Edit Value option.

In the dialog that opens, you can enter a fixed (constant) value, but in our case we’ll click on the drop-down arrow, select User Parameters, and then select UserCompanyParam:

Click OK to close the dialog and the feature type should look like this. Notice how the attribute that has had its value set is now highlighted with a specific icon:

**8)** Save and Run Workspace

Save the workspace and then – as if you were the end-user – run it using Run > Prompt and Run.

When prompted enter your details into the fields that have been newly created:

Locate and open the XML file to ensure the contents have been inserted as expected:
