# More User Parameters





Colleagues have purchased FME to do some data translations. However, not having taken the training course they are not confident users and would like to have their workspace made as simple as possible for them to run.

So, your task is to simplify their workspace using User Parameters, so the workspace can be run with minimal user intervention.

**1)** Start Workbench

Open the workspace C:\FMEData2015\Workspaces\DesktopAdvanced\Exercise1b-Begin.fmw.

This is the workspace created by your colleagues:

Notice that source tables are being grouped together and written to a Shape feature type. Their current method is to choose which tables to process by disabling them in the workspace. Similarly, they are setting the destination coordinate system and data encoding using Navigator parameters.

Also notice that the only annotations in the workspace are there to help the end user make edits to the workspace. Really there should be no need for that; published parameters should prompt the user instead, and that is what we will implement here.

**2)** Clean Up Auto-Created User Parameters

Open up the User Parameters section of the Navigator window. Notice how there are already user parameters for the source and destination datasets.

However, you know that the source data will never change, so that parameter is of no use. So, delete the user parameter labelled “SourceDataset_FILEGDB.”

Keep the parameter for DestDataset_SHAPE, as that can still be used to set the output location.

**3)** Create Encoding Paramete

One facet of the output that the users would like to control is the encoding of the dataset. This is achieved through a Writer parameter. However, it would be better for the users to set this as a user parameter.

Locate the Shape Writer in the Navigator window and expand the list of FME parameters.

Identify the Character Encoding parameter, right-click on it and choose Create User Parameter:

Simply click OK on the dialog that opens and a user parameter is created and linked to the FME one.

**4)** Create Coordinate System Parameter

Another requirement is an ability to set the output coordinate system.

However, if you simply publish the Writer’s coordinate system parameter – try it and see – then there will be a problem. The parameter will allow the end-user to select ANY coordinate system supported by FME.

It would be preferable if the parameter only allowed the end-user to select a coordinate system from a smaller list. For example, since the data is located in Vancouver, BC, it makes little sense for the user to be able to reproject it to NZMG (a New Zealand coordinate system).

So, locate the User Parameters in the Navigator Window, right-click and choose Add Parameter.

Set the Type to be Choice with Alias; set the Name to be CoordSysParam, and set the prompt to be Select Output Coordinate System:

Now click the […] button to the right of the Configuration setting. This opens a dialog in which to configure the parameter.

Normally we would enter values manually. However, for coordinate systems (and Reader/Writer formats) we have the option to have FME define them for us.

Click on the button labelled Import and choose Coordinate System(s):

This opens a list of coordinate systems that we wish to import as values in our user parameter.

Locate and put a checkmark in the box for the following coordinate systems:
- UTM83-10
- BCALB-83
- LL83
- CANBC-LCC

Then click OK to close this dialog. You will be returned to the configuration dialog and find that names and values have been automatically entered for these coordinate systems.

Click OK and then OK again to close the remaining dialogs and create the user parameter.

**5)** Link Coordinate System Parameter

Now we have the user's selection but we still have to apply it to the real parameter. So locate the Writer’s coordinate system parameter, right-click on it, and choose Link to User Parameter:

When prompted, select the newly created CoordSysParam and click OK to accept the selection.

**6)** Create Tables Parameter

The final task for us here is to create a way to decide which tables are going to be read. If you remember, at the moment the way your colleagues do this is by disabling various Reader feature types. However, there has to be a better method.

This is an interesting task because we want to control the source tables (Libraries, Parks, etc.) based on selection of output tables (CommunityFacilities, Environment, and Miscellaneous).
For example, we want the user to select output feature types like "Environment", which needs both "Parks" and "DrinkingFountains" Reader feature types.

Locate the Feature Types to Read parameter in the CommunityMap Reader "Features to Read" parameters (in the Navigator window).

Right-click on it and choose Create User Parameter.

A dialog will open that is already populated with a list of feature types.

Check the box that is labelled Use Alternate Display Name. This provides the ability to give alternate names for each feature type. What we need to do is use this dialog to group together common Reader feature types under a single display name.

Delete the entry for GarbageSchedule, as this data isn’t connected and is not needed.

Then, match the contents of the workspace by editing the Display Names. They should match as follows:

Underneath that change the prompt to read “Tables to Write” and then click OK to close the dialog.

**7)** Save and Run Workspace

Save the workspace. Then start up the FME Quick Translator application, located on the Start menu under the FME Desktop Utilities folder.

In there, select Run from the Getting Started menu:

Browse to the newly saved workspace, select it, and click Open. You will be presented with a list of published parameters, just as the end-user would see it:

Pick Unicode 8-bit (utf-8) as the encoding. Select a coordinate system, noting how the user is restricted to those chosen by us. Select one or two of the tables to write and click OK to run the workspace.

The translation will be carried out. Inspect the data to ensure the results are correct. The CommunityFacilities – for example – should be made up of both libraries and community centres.

***NB:** *If you run the workspace multiple times you will get multiple sets of results in the same folder! So Best Practice suggests you empty the output folder each time you run the workspace, but you can also find the latest results by checking the file dates/times.**

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-cogs fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Advanced Exercise</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
Speaking of Best Practice, don't forget to tidy up the workspace and give it a better style and structure.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>