## Inspecting Output ##
Even if a workspace ran to completion without warnings or errors, it does not follow that the output matches what is expected or required. For whatever reason, the workspace may be producing data in the wrong manner. This we determine by inspecting the translation output.

Inspecting the output is simply a case of viewing it in either the FME Data Inspector, or in the application in which the data is intended to be used. 

As noted already in this manual, a number of different aspects of data may be inspected, including the following:

- **Format**: Is the data in the expected format?
- **Schema**: Is the data subdivided into the correct layers, categories or classes?
- **Geometry**: Is the geometry in the correct spatial location? Are the geometry types correct?
- **Symbology**: Is the color, size, and style of each feature correct?
- **Attributes**: Are all the required attributes present? Are all integrity rules being followed?
- **Quantity**: Does the data contain the correct number of features?
- **Output**: Has the translation process restructured the data as expected?

It should be straightforward to check a dataset and see if any of its components are incorrect. 

---

<!--Person X Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Dr. Workbench says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
This stage is solely to determine IF there are any problems.
<br><br>If there are no problems, then we can be satisfied the translation was a success.
<br>If there are problems, we should go on to determine where the problem occurred. It's important not to jump to conclusions at this point. The fact that the output is incorrect does not tell us <strong>where</strong> that issue was introduced.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>