# Security Updates #

All installations of FME Server, regardless of type, include the FME Server Core and FME Engines. These components are always provided directly from the FME Server installation package. Two additional components - a Web Application Server and a server for the FME Server Database - must also be installed.

When you choose to install a full, stand-alone version of FME Server, the install package provides its own versions of these components, including an Apache Tomcat web application servlet, and a PostgreSQL database server. This is the “Express” installation option. If you choose a Distributed installation of FME Server, you can either provide your own web application server or choose the default FME Server Web Application Server, and depending on the scenario (2-tier or 3-tier architecture), you may also provide a database server.

One factor in deciding between a stand-alone or distributed installation of FME Server is the degree of control you want in applying security updates to the web application and database servers. If you install a full, stand-alone FME Server, keep in mind that any security updates to these components are dependent on updates to FME Server releases in general. Each time FME Server releases an update to its software (including both major and minor releases), any security updates for these components are included in that release. You will need to re-install to receive these updates.

If you do not want to rely on updates to the FME Server software in general for security updates to the Web Application and Database servers, then we recommend a Distributed installation. In this case, you provide these additional server components on your own and maintain security updates for them separately.
<!--** do we remove weblogic mention - speak to weisong -->
- In the case of the Web Application server, both Apache Tomcat and Oracle WebLogic are supported.
- The FME Server Database supports PostgreSQL, Oracle, and SQL Server.

Alternatively, if your FME Server is entirely internal to your organization, and behind a firewall, then you may be more comfortable with the security updates provided with a full installation.

---

<!--Person X Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Mr. E. Dict, (Attorney of FME Law) says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
Please be sure to review the <a href="https://www.safe.com/fme/fme-server/tech-specs/">FME Server Technical Specifications</a> for the most up-to-date information on Web Application and Database Server compatibility.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
