HTML, CSV fanout

Basic KML, including join

# Exercise 4.1

{% import "../includes/templates.html" as template %}

{{ template.exercise(4.1,
               "Multiple Readers, Writers, and Feature Types",
               "3-1-1 case location details (`.xls` hosted on FTP)<br>Local planning area polygons (`.kml` hosted on FTP)",
               "Add additional readers and writers<br>Add a dataset fanout<br>Create a report using the HTMLReportGenerator",
               "Creating more complex FME workflows",
               "None",
               "None")
}}

City planners are doing strategic planning and want to know which local planning areas will need additional resources. They have requested the following:

-They like the summary table made earlier, but instead of a single CSV, they want a CSV for each planning area to send to local planners
-Reports of the 3-1-1 requests by local planning areas with tables and charts
-A map they can use to view the local planning areas with summary tables of the requests

You have decided to create an HTML report with tables and charts and a KML (Keyhole Markup Language, a spatial data format used by Google Earth) map to share with them. This task requires adding additional readers and writers to our workspace. In this exercise we will add a KML reader feature type, a KML writer feature type, and an HTML writer feature type. We will also use a transformer to generate the HTML report.

## 1) Add a KML Reader

First, let's add a KML reader for the local planning areas. Click Readers > Add Reader, or press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>R</kbd>. Enter the following:

<table style="border: 0px">

  <tr>
    <td style="font-weight: bold">Reader Format</td>
    <td style="">Google KML</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td style="font-weight: bold">Reader Dataset</td>
    <td style=""><a href="https://data.vancouver.ca/download/kml/cov_localareas.kml">https://data.vancouver.ca/download/kml/cov_localareas.kml</a><br><i>Note:</i> You can also access the data locally at C:\FMEData2018\Data\Boundaries\LocalAreas.kml</td>
  </tr>

</table>

## 2) Add a KML Writer

Next, let's add a KML writer for the local areas.

First, let's add a KML reader for the local planning areas. Click Readers > Add Reader, or press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>R</kbd>. Enter the following:

<table style="border: 0px">

  <tr>
    <td style="font-weight: bold">Writer Format</td>
    <td style="">Google KML</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td style="font-weight: bold">Reader Dataset</td>
    <td style="">C:\FMEData2018\Output\Training</td>
  </tr>

</table>

In the next exercise, we'll add data from our summary table to this, but for now, just connect your KML reader and writer feature types.

## 3) Add an HTML Writer

## 4) Add an HTMLReportGenerator

## 5) Conduct a Dataset Fanout on the CSV Writer Feature Type

{% call template.congrats() %}

<ul>
  <li>Work with multiple readers and writers</li>
  <li>Generate a report using HTMLReportGenerator</li>
  <li>Conduct a dataset fanout</li>
</ul>

{% endcall %}
