{% import "../includes/templates.html" as template %}

{{ template.exercise(4.2,
               "Debugging with Feature Caching and Partial Runs",
               "3-1-1 case location details (<code>.xls</code> hosted on FTP)",
               "Use partial runs to debug a workspace<br>Join data using the FeatureJoiner<br>Style a KML",
               "Incremental development and best practice",
               "None",
               "None")
}}

In order to get the summarized 3-1-1 data into our KML data, we have to join the data streams. We will use the FeatureJoiner transformer to do that. Then we'll use partial runs to test our workspace incrementally. Finally, we'll style our KML using some format-specific transformers.

# 1) Add a FeatureJoiner

Now that we have polygons of the local areas and a table summarizing the cases by local area, we can join our data. A join operation connects two tables with a common key, in this case `Local Area`.

There are [many ways to join features](https://knowledge.safe.com/articles/34619/working-with-database-transformers-1.html) in FME. Here we will use the [FeatureJoiner](http://docs.safe.com/fme/html/FME_Desktop_Documentation/FME_Transformers/Transformers/featurejoiner.htm), which conducts a simple join.

Add a FeatureJoiner to the canvas using Quick Add. Connect the output port of the HTMLReportGenerator_2 to the Right input port of the FeatureJoiner. Then drag the feature connection going into the KML writer feature type into the FeatureJoiner Left input port:

# 2) Set FeatureJoiner Parameters

Once the FeatureJoiner is added to the canvas, double-click it to open its parameters.

For Join Mode, we will use Inner. This parameter uses [SQL-type joins, without writing an SQL statement](http://docs.safe.com/fme/html/FME_Desktop_Documentation/FME_Transformers/Transformers/featurejoiner.htm). An inner join will keep only matching features; in this case it does not matter which we choose, because every local area polygon will have a matching incoming feature.

In the Join On section we can select the common key to use to join our features. Fill it out like this:

|Left|Right|Comparison Mode|
|-|-|
|`Name`|`Local Area`|Automatic|

Click Ok.

# 3) Use Partial Runs to Test

We can use partial runs to see if our join is working as anticipated. Click the FeatureJoiner to select it, then click the Run to This button. Once the translation has run, click the green magnifying glass icon on Joined to inspect the results of the join:

IMAGE

In Data Inspector you should see that the HTML table data has been joined to each local area polygon, under the `html_content` attribute:

IMAGE

You can expand the contents of a multi-line attribute by clicking the gray square next to the cell to expand the value into its own window:

IMAGE

This shows the full value of `html_content` for that local area. When we add this to a balloon on our KML features, it will display as rendered HTML.

Next, connect the Joined port to your KML writer feature type and remove the existing connection between your KML reader and writer feature types. Then, click the feature type and select Run to This. Once the translation has run, click the Open Containing Folder button. Open the `.kml` file in Google Earth. You can click on the local area polygons and view a table summarizing the 3-1-1 requests in that area:

IMAGE

However, there are still some unnecessary attributes in the bubble. We can use some format-specific transformers to clean it up.

[A bit disingenuous here, since what is being shown is default and not the html yet, but I didn't want to do too much without inspecting. We could cut this little inspection step and just wait to inspect until after the KML transformers are added]

<!-- 18 min to here -->

# 4) Style a KML using Format Attributes

We have almost fulfilled all the requests from the planning department, but the styling of the `.kml` could be improved. Currently the polygons are only outlined and there are extra attributes in the bubble.

To fix the first issue we have to change the value of a **format attribute**. Every format in FME comes with a number of format attributes, which contains data that is part of the format specification. Format attributes are prefixed with the format abbreviation, for example `igds_level` or `autocad_color`. These formats control settings in the destination format, for example setting the color of features in AutoCAD.

By default, these attributes are **unexposed**, meaning they will not appear in most attribute drop-down lists, be shown under expanded objects on the canvas, or appear in Table View in Data Inspector. You can see them, however, if you look at the Format Attributes tab on feature types, or if you look in the Feature Information window in Data Inspector:

IMAGE

The format attribute we want to change is `kml_polystyle_fill`; currently it is set to 0 on our local area polygons, making them display as outlines only. We'd prefer they display as filled polygons, so we need to change the value to 1. We _could_ do this in the AttributeManager; however, because the kml features are joined _after_ the AttributeManager, `kml_polystyle_fill` will be set back to 0 if we do it that way! Instead, we can use an AttributeCreator right before the data is written. Add one between your AttributeCreator and KML writer feature type:

IMAGE

Double-click the AttributeCreator to open its parameters. Click in the empty cell under New Attribute and type in `kml_polystyle_fill`. For Attribute Value, enter 1. Your row should look like this:

|New Attribute|Attribute Value|
|-|-|
|`kml_polystyle_fill`|1|

Click Ok.

# 5) Supply HTML to Balloons with the KMLPropertySetter

We want to only display our `html_content` table in the KML bubbles. We can use a KMLPropertySetter to do this. Add one to your canvas between the FeatureJoiner and the KML writer feature type. Double-click it to open its parameters. Make the following changes:

<table style="border: 0px">

  <tr>
    <td style="font-weight: bold">Content Type</td>
    <td style="">HTML</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td style="font-weight: bold">Content</td>
    <td style="">`html_content`</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td style="font-weight: bold">Include Attribute Table</td>
    <td style="">No</td>
  </tr>

</table>

These settings set the bubble's content to HTML supplied by the `html_content` attribute from our HTMLReportGenerator_2. Turning the Attribute Table off ensures other attribute values do not appear and clutter the bubble.

To view our edits to the final KML file, click the KML writer feature type and select Run To This. Once the translation is complete, click the Open Containing Folder icon and then open `LocalAreas.kml` in Google Earth. You should now see filled polygons and the bubbles should only show the name of the local area and the HTML table:

IMAGE

# 6) Style a KML using the KMLStyler

Finally, we can change the color of the polygons in our KML output using the KMLStyler. Add one between the KMLPropertySetter and AttributeCreator. Double-click it to set its parameters. We will be setting Color and Fill Color. You can choose whichever colors you prefer. In this example, we will use orange. Click the color swatch next to Color and choose the color you want. We used #ff4500, a hexadecimal color code you can enter in the HTML box:

IMAGE

Click Ok when you have chosen a color. For Fill Color we used #ffa500. Set a color for Fill Color as well. Your dialog should look like this:

IMAGE

Once you have styled your features, select the KML writer feature type and use Run To This to write your data. Click Open Containing Folder and open the output in Google Earth. Now you should see filled polygons of your desired color, with bubbles displaying the HTML summary tables:

IMAGE

{% call template.congrats() %}

<ul>
  <li>Use feature caching</li>
  <li>Use partial runs</li>
  <li>Conduct a join using the FeatureJoiner</li>
  <li>Customize KML output using format attributes, the KMLPropertySetter, and the KMLStyler</li>
</ul>

{% endcall %}
