# Course Overview #

This training course provides a framework for a basic understanding of FME. We find users come to master one function, but go home with many new FME uses.

The training will introduce basic concepts and terminology, help students become efficient users of FME, and direct you to resources to help apply the product to your own needs.

## Course Structure ##

The full course is made up of five sections. These sections are:

- Data Translation Basics
- Data Transformation
- Translation Components
- Practical Transformer Use
- Best Practice

## Course Length ##

The instructor may choose to cover as many of these sections as they feel are required, or possible, in the time permitted. They may also cover the course content in a different order and will skip or add new content to better customize the course to your needs.

Therefore the length and content of the course may vary, particularly when delivered online.

**Safe Software** offers training in various lengths, but usually either two days or five days. Both courses cover the same content. The two-day course is held over fewer, but longer, days and is more intense. The five-day course is held over more, but shorter, days and allows a little more time to cover the content from a beginner's perspective. 

## About the Manual ##
The FME Desktop training manual not only forms the basis for FME Desktop training – in-person or online – but is also useful reference material for future work you may undertake with FME. It is updated for each major release of FME.

All screenshots in these materials were taken using FME on Windows Server 2016.

---

<!--Updated Section--> 

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-bolt fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">.1 UPDATE</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
The FME development cycle includes a number of follow-up releases, numbered .1, .2, etc
<br>A dialog box like this denotes features new or updated in FME2017.1, the first major update to the .0 release
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>