## Custom Transformer Input/Output Ports ##

The input and output ports on a custom transformer are defined by input/output objects in the custom transformer definition itself.

Firstly, these input/output objects can be renamed, in order that the transformer ports get named appropriately. You can either double-click the object, choose Rename from the context menu, or press F2, in order to rename the object.

For example, here the user is renaming an input port from FeatureReader_Initiator to simply Raster.

Renaming the input and output ports is useful for making the custom transformer object more legible, and for helping the user to understand what data is supposed to connect to the port.

For example, after editing the transformer might look like this:

Besides renaming ports, it is also possible to add new ports to a custom transformer.

To do so simply click the tab to display the custom transformer’s definition and select Transformer Input (or Output) from either the canvas context (right-click) menu or the menubar.

For example, here a user has added a new input port to handle vector data.

This means that each instance of the custom transformer in the main canvas will now have an extra input port, like so:

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">First Officer Transformer says…</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
‘To arrange the ports in a set order, change their position in the custom
transformer definition. The port that appears highest up in the canvas will
appear first on the custom transformer itself!”
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

