For this exercise we have been asked to convert point clouds to a vector point format that another department can use. We already have a workspace to do this, which nicely tiles and thins the data too so the destination datasets aren’t overwhelmed.

However, the workspace takes time to run and it might be better to use parallel processing.
Since none of the transformers used has a parallel processing parameter, we’ll have to create a custom transformer.

**1)** Open Workspace

Open the workspace C:\FMEData2015\Workspaces\DesktopAdvanced\Exercise3f-Begin.fmw

As you’ll see, this workspace processes some incoming point cloud data. Inspect the data to see what we’re dealing with. If you run the workspace as-is it will take approximately three minutes. To make it run a little faster you can increase the Thinning Interval parameter in the PointCloudThinner (say to 25).

Open a task manager (process manager) tool for your operating system. Run the workspace. You’ll see a single FME engine process running (fme.exe)

Of course, you’ll also see an fmeworkbench.exe process, which is the process running the Workbench interface. This isn’t responsible for running a workspace; this is a separate process.

**2)** Create Custom Transformer

Now select the PointCloudThinner and PointCloudCoercer transformers and turn them into a custom transformer. Note; don’t include the Tiler transformer as this is creating the tiles that we’ll be using as a way to parallel process.

You can call the transformer something like PointCloudProcessing. It doesn’t matter what attribute reference handling you choose.
The transformer definition should look something like this:

**3)** Set Parallel Processing

In the Navigator window (of the custom transformer definition) locate and expand the section of custom transformer advanced parameters.

Double-click the Parallel Processing Level parameter to set it. Set the processing level to Moderate.

Click OK to close the dialog and you’ll notice the Parallel Process By parameter is now published.

**4)** Set Process By

Return to the main canvas and click on the parameters button for the custom transformer instance. Select both _column and _row as the attributes to process by.

This means that each unique combination of _column and _row (i.e. each tile) will be run under a separate process, up to a maximum of one process per core processor.

**5)** Run Workspace

Run the workspace, again with a task manager window open. Once the tiling is complete and the rest of the workspace is being processed, you’ll notice a number of FME worker processes (fmeworker.exe).

In moderate mode, you’ll see up to one fmeworker process for each core. This time the translation should be complete is nearly half the time, approximately one minute and thirty seconds.

**6)** Experiment with Parallel Processing Level

If you have time, re-run the workspace with a different processing level, say Aggressive. Does it run any quicker than the Moderate processing level? If not, why might that be?

