Having created a custom transformer in exercises 3a and 3b, we should check that the schema is going to be handled correctly.

**1)** Start Workbench

Open the workspace C:\FMEData\Workspaces\DesktopAdvanced\Exercise3c-Begin.fmw

If you check back to exercise 3a, you’ll see that the transformer was created using the automatic schema handling parameter and the workspace will already be handling schema properly. That’s how we were able to duplicate the transformer in exercise 3b and select one of the two attributes.

**2)** Set Parameter Prompts

One issue outstanding is that the prompt used by the transformer is not very generic. Let’s fix that. Click on the tab labelled DensityEvaluator to switch the canvas to the custom transformer definition. Browse the Navigator window to find the published parameter that FME created.

Right-click on the parameter and choose Edit Definition. In the dialog that opens set the parameter prompt to: Density Attribute

**3)** Implement Units Selection

At the moment this workspace is calculating the number of residents per square kilometer of land. However, other uses of this transformer might find different units to be more useful.
Therefore we’ll implement a method for users to be able to select units.

A user parameter will be the best way to achieve this, as the user can select the units manually and not need to supply it as an attribute.
So, in the custom transformer definition, browse the Navigator window and right-click on the entry labelled User Parameters.
Select the Add Parameter option:

In the Add/Edit User Parameter dialog, set the following parameters:

Type    Choice with Alias

Name    DensityUnits

Prompt  Density Units

Uncheck the check box parameter labelled ‘Optional.’

Now click the […] button to the right of the Configuration parameter. This opens a dialog in which to define choices for the user to select from.

Make two entries into this dialog. The first is a value of 1 with a display name of ‘Sq Metres.’

The second is a value of 0.000001 with a display name of ‘Sq Km.’ Click OK to close that dialog.

Back in the Add/Edit User Parameter dialog set Sq Km as the Default Value.

Then click OK to close this dialog and add to the published parameter.

**4)** Implement Parameter

Now we’ve defined a published parameter, we have to use it in the custom transformer.

Open the parameters dialog for the AreaCalculator transformer. For the Multiplier field, click the drop-down arrow and select the newly defined user parameter, DensityUnits.

Click OK to close the dialog.

Back in the main canvas the custom transformer now has a parameter for the end user to select the output density units. Experiment by running the workspace using different units, to prove that the changes were implemented properly.

**5)** Implement Weighting

Although it’s not needed for this population density calculation, another useful function for this transformer would be the ability to apply a weighting to the density calculations.

The weighting will come from an incoming attribute, which means we need to be able to handle this in the custom transformer’s schema.

Because we don’t have a weighting attribute here, return to the Main canvas tab and add a RandomNumberGenerator transformer in order to generate a test attribute:

**6)** Set RandomNumberGenerator Parameters

Open the parameters dialog for the RandomNumberGenerator. For the purposes of this exercise set:

Minimum Value: 0.1

Maximum Value:1

Decimal Places: 1

Result Attribute: Weighting Attribute

**7)** Expose Attribute in Custom Transformer

Return to the DensityEvaluator tab where the transformer is defined. Click on the parameters button on the Input port object to open up a dialog named Edit Transformer Input.

Put a checkmark against the WeightingAttribute attribute and then click OK to close the dialog.

This will cause the attribute to be exposed in the custom transformer definition:

It will also cause a user parameter to be created. Locate the parameter in the Navigator window (it should be called WEIGHTINGATTRIBUTE) right-click on it and choose Edit Definition.

Put a checkmark in the Optional field, as this should not be compulsory (the user might not have an attribute to weight the results by).

8) Duplicate ExpressionEvaluator

Make a duplicate copy of the existing ExpressionEvaluator and connect it in parallel to the current one. Then put a Tester in beforehand where the Passed port goes to one

ExpressionEvaluator and the Failed port goes to the other:

**9)** Set up Tester

Open up the Tester parameters dialog. Make a test for where WeightingAttribute > 0

**10)** Adjust Equation

Now that the attribute is exposed in the custom transformer, we can use it in the equation for calculating density. Open the parameters dialog for the ExpressionEvaluator transformer connected to the Tester Passed port.

Change the equation to:

@Value(TotalPopulation2001)/(@Value(NeighborhoodArea)*@Value(WeightingAttribute))

i.e. multiply the existing NeighborhoodArea attribute by the WeightingAttribute and place parentheses around that part of the expression.

Click OK to close the dialog and run the workspace to check the result. Remember – the results will be different every time because we’re generating the weighting attribute randomly at run time!

Experiment selecting the weighting attribute in the main canvas, and not selecting it. When no attribute is selected then the features should pass through the Failed port and no weighting is used in the calculation:

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">First Officer Transformer says…</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
“It may seem odd – especially to experienced users – that we would use
the attribute in the expression, and not the published parameter.
But this is all part of how FME handles this behavior automatically. It avoids the author
needing to know about published parameters and how to use them, and uses hidden
functionality to replace the attribute with the published parameter wherever necessary.”
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>