# Module Review #
This module introduced you to the concept of Data Transformation and explained how to use FME Workbench for more than just quick translations.

 
## What You Should Have Learned from this Module ##
The following are key points to be learned from this session:

### Theory ###

- A ***schema*** describes a dataset’s structure, including its feature types, attributes, and geometries.
- ***Schema editing*** is the act of editing the destination schema to better define what is required out of the translation.
- The act of joining the source schema to the destination is called ***schema mapping***. Differences between the two schemas lead to ***structural transformation***.
- ***Content transformation*** is the modifying of data content during a translation. In FME Workbench data transformation is carried out using objects called ***transformers***.
- ***Groups*** can be created using the Group-By option in a transformer’s parameters.
- Splitting data into multiple streams creates multiple copies and not a division of data. Bringing together multiple streams combines the data, rather than merges it.


### FME Skills ###

- The ability to edit a writer schema
- The ability to restructure data by mapping a reader to a writer schema, both manually and through transformers
- The ability to locate transformers in Workbench and use them to transform data content
- The ability to set transformer parameters in either the Parameter Editor or transformer dialogs
- The ability to define feature groups using the Group-By option
- The ability to reproject data using Workbench


### Further Reading ###

For further reading why not browse **[articles tagged with Transformation](http://blog.safe.com/tag/transformation/)** on our blog? 