# Troubleshooting for Administrators

This section shows a few basic troubleshooting techniques to help guide you through FME Server. 

---

<!--Tip Section--> 

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-info-circle fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">TIP</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
The FME Server Experts here at Safe Software have written up excellent troubleshooting guides. If you are stuck, check out the <a href="https://knowledge.safe.com/articles/540/fme-server-troubleshooting-guide.html">FME Server Troubleshooting Guide</a>. Can't find the guide you need, suggest it as an <a href="https://knowledge.safe.com/content/idea/list.html">Idea</a> on the Knowledge Center.  
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## FME Workbench-FME Server Connection

If you are unable to connect from FME Workbench to FME Server then the following suggestions may be of help:

* Check if there is a firewall running on either your computer or the FME Server. If so, you must open port 80 \(or 8080\) to use the Web Connection.

* Restart the FME Server Services. On Windows, go to Start &gt; FME Server &gt; Restart FME Server.

## FME Server Web Interface

If you are unable to access the FME Server Web Interface, then the following suggestions may be of help.

* Confirm that FME Server is running! The easiest way is to restart the FME Server Services \(as above\).

* Check whether FME Server was installed using an application server port other than 80. For example, if port 80 was already being used the installer might have used a different port; 8080 is most common. To check, try entering the URL with this syntax [http://&lt;host&gt;:&lt;port&gt;/fmeserver](http://<host>:<port>/fmeserver) - for example [http://localhost:8080/fmeserver](http://localhost:8080/fmeserver)

## Workspaces Are Queued But Not Run

If a workspace appears in the FME Server queue but is never executed, then it may be because no engines are running:

* Check the Web Interface \(Admin &gt; Engines and Licensing &gt; Configure\) to confirm engine status. If no engines are available, then update licensing as necessary. Once a license is available the engines should restart automatically.

## Workspaces Fail When Run

If a workspace fails when it is being run, then the following suggestions may help:

* Run the workspace first in FME Workbench. If it does not work there, it will not work on FME Server.

* Check the FME log file using the Jobs page in the Web Interface. The log may help to explain why there is a problem.

* Data paths can cause problems when moving from a local desktop machine to a server environment. Check the dataset parameters \(Reader and Writer\) to ensure they are not referring to a local path that does not exist on the Server. You may need to change the parameter to use the Resources filesystem and not a file path dialog.

* If you are trying to read data with a UNC path, ensure that the FME Server Windows Service is being run by a user with the proper domain access permissions.

* If you are using an FMEServerJobSubmitter transformer, be sure to check the server connection when porting from a test environment to a live environment.

## Scheduling

If a scheduled workspace appears to have not been run at the expected time, then the following suggestions may be of help.

* Ensure an engine is available, and that the scheduled job is not in a queue.

* Check the date and time very carefully to ensure the correct values were entered.

* Check that the timezone is correct. The web interface operates on local timezone, which is not necessarily the same timezone as the server is physically located.



