# Module Review

This module introduced you to FME Server, and the Web Interface used to access most of its functionality.

## What You Should Have Learned from this Module ##

The following are key points to be learned from this module.

### Theory ###

- FME Server is a powerful product for handling large volumes of data at the enterprise level. It has three core capabilities: Self-Serve, Real-Time, and Automation.
- FME Server provides the same processing core as FME Desktop, but on the enterprise level. It does not include an authoring tool, for which FME Workbench is required.
- Someone who creates translations for use on FME Server is called an author.
- The three main components of FME Server are FME Engines, the Server Core, and Web Services.
- The FME Server interface includes tools for running a workspace, examining job history, managing resources and data files, and scheduling jobs.
- Databases can have a container of connection information created and stored on FME Server.
- Workspaces can be shared with users or applications that do not have access to FME Server as FME Server Apps or Webhook URLs.
- Projects are a collection of different FME Server components
- Projects are an efficient way to manage multiple components
- Projects allow administrative-type tasks to be carried out by authors
- Projects can be used to import/export/share FME Server components

### FME Skills ###

- The ability to open the FME Server web interface
- The ability to browse repositories and run a workspace
- The ability to check job status
- The ability to schedule a job to run at a particular time
- The ability to share a repository with another user
- The ability to share a workspace with anyone
- The ability to create an FME Server project and add components to it
- The ability to share an FME Server project with other users
- The ability to import, export, and remove an FME Server project

## Further Reading ##

For further reading why not check out...

- [This blog article on FME Server Projects](https://blog.safe.com/2017/05/fme2017-projects-evangelist163/)

## Troubleshooting Tips ##

Common issues when working with Projects:
- [FME Server Troubleshooting: Projects](https://knowledge.safe.com/articles/55048/fme-server-troubleshooting-projects.html)
