# Questions #


<quiz>
    <question multiple>
        <p>Which of these is <strong>not</strong> one of the three core capabilities of FME Server?</p>
        <answer>Automation</answer>
        <answer>Real-Time</answer>
        <answer correct>NoSQL Database</answer>
        <answer>Self-Serve</answer>
        <explanation>FME Server is many things - but it is not a NoSQL database!</explanation>
    </question>
    <question multiple>
        <p>I have a Server with two engines. Four users submit jobs at the same time. What happens?</p>
        <answer>Two jobs are processed. Two jobs are returned to their authors.</answer>
        <answer>Two extra engines will fire up automatically to process all four jobs.</answer>
        <answer>The four jobs will be processed simultaneously, sharing the two engines.</answer>
        <answer correct>Two jobs are processed. The other two sit in a queue until an engine becomes free.</answer>
        <explanation>Yes, the server core keeps a queue of jobs and submits them as engines become available. Extra engines will not fire up, even if you do have spare licenses, and jobs will never be ignored just because no engine is currently available.</explanation>
    </question>
    <question multiple>
        <p>If I wanted to find out about workspaces stored in a repository - for example I'm building a tool to catalogue my workspaces - what is the best way to do it?</p>
        <answer correct>Use the FME Server REST API</answer>
        <answer>Scrape the contents of the Server repository page</answer>
        <answer>Get a file listing from the repository folder</answer>
        <answer>Connect to the FME Server database to query it directly</answer>
        <explanation>The REST API is a quick, simple, and official method to query the workspace repositories. Querying the database directly is permissible, however, under no circumstances should you write into or update directly the contents of the database.</explanation>
    </question>
    <question multiple>
        <p>Which of these are good reasons for running engines on multiple operating systems at the same time? Pick all that apply.</p>
        <answer correct>A required format is only available on 32-bit or 64-bit, not both.</answer>
        <answer correct>A required format is only available on Windows, or Linux, not both.</answer>
        <answer>FME Desktop users author workspaces using a mix of Windows, Linux, and Mac platforms.</answer>
        <answer correct>You want to process heavy-scale jobs on a more powerful platform.</answer>
        <explanation>Basically some formats are only available on certain platforms and so you may need to mix of operating systems to cover all your requirements. You may also want to redirect large-scale jobs to a more powerful platform. However, it doesn't matter what platform the workspace author used; their jobs will run on whatever system FME Server is based on.</explanation>
    </question>
    <question multiple>
      <p>A Project can be shared only in the following circumstances:</p>
      <answer>You must own the Project. Only the Project owner can share it.</answer>
      <answer>You must be a user with permission to manage security. Only such a user can share a Project.</answer>
      <answer correct>You can own the Project OR be a user with permission to manage security (i.e. you can be one or the other).</answer>
      <answer>If you own the Project then you can share it. But if you have permission to manage security, then you can share any Project.</answer>
      <explanation>If you own the Project then you can share it. But if you have permission to manage security, then you can share any Project.</explanation>
    </question>
    <question multiple>
      <p>If you choose to export a Project to a Resources folder (rather than download it) then what additional capability do you gain?</p>
      <answer correct>The ability to trigger a notification topic on completion of the export.</answer>
      <answer>The ability to export the FME license for the server.</answer>
      <answer correct>The ability to remove all components of the project as they are exported.</answer>
      <answer>The ability to change ownership of the components to your own user account.</answer>
      <explanation>When you choose to export to Resources, you'll see a Notification panel at the bottom of the export settings page. You can use that to select a topic to notify if the export succeeds or fails. </explanation>
    </question>
    <question multiple>
      <p>Checking the box to remove the contents of a Project removes all of the project components:</p>
      <answer>True</answer>
      <answer correct>False</answer>
      <explanation>A Project can contain users and roles. The remove tool won't remove the user carrying out the removal, nor will it remove any role for which that user is part of. Also it won't remove components you don't have permission to remove.</explanation>
    </question>
</quiz>
