# Module Review

This module introduced you to FME Server and the Web Interface used to access most of its functionality

## What You Should Have Learned from this Module ##

The following are key points to be learned from this module.

### Theory ###

- FME Server is a powerful product for handling large volumes of data at the enterprise level. It has three core capabilities: Self-Serve, Real-Time, and Automation.
- FME Server provides the same processing core as FME Desktop, but on the enterprise level. It does not include an authoring tool, for which FME Workbench is required.
- Someone who creates translations for use on FME Server is called an author.
- The three main components of FME Server are FME Engines, the Server Core, and Web Services
- FME Server can be implemented on Physical hardware, Virtual hardware, or under a product called FME Cloud.
- The FME Server interface includes tools for running a workspace, examining job history, managing resources and data files, and scheduling jobs.
- Databases can have a container of connection information created and stored on FME Server
- Data (and other related files) can be uploaded and stored on FME Server in various ways; either published data, temporary uploads, or as “Resources”
- Workspaces can be authored in FME Desktop specifically to use data stored in FME Server resource folders 
- Developer information is provided to help run workspaces via a URL
- Workspaces can be run in a series of translations using a technique called *chaining*

### FME Skills ###

- The ability to open the FME Server web i
nterface
- The ability to browse repositories and run a workspace
- The ability to check job status
- The ability to schedule a job to run at a particular time
- The ability to create and use a database connection
- The ability to publish data with a workspace, upload data for a workspace, or manage data in resource folders
- The ability to create a workspace that references data in a resource folder
- The ability to chain together workspaces using a parent-child model

## Further Reading ##

For further reading why not check out [this blog article on deploying FME Server using Docker containers](http://blog.safe.com/2016/02/fme-server-for-docker-technology-preview/) or take a look at [this blog article on the architecture of FME Cloud](http://blog.safe.com/2015/10/behind-the-scenes-fme-cloud-overview-and-architecture/), which is both fascinating and instructive!