# Backup and Migration #

To migrate the configuration of an FME Server instance to another instance, perform a backup and restore operation using the tools on the *Backup & Restore* page of the FME Server web interface.

Make sure to manually back up the FME Server configuration files to a location outside of your FME Server installation directory in case you need to refer to them later. These configurations are not included in the primary backup procedure.

### Which FME Server Configuration Components are Migrated? ###

The following components of your FME Server are migrated:

- Repositories and the items stored in them, including workspaces, custom transformers, custom formats, templates, and resources. Any designations by users of a repository item as a ‘favorite’ are also migrated.
- Version Control information is **NOT** migrated. Only the active workspace is backed up.  If a remote Git repository is configured, perform a **Push** before dropping the FME Server system to capture version control information.
- FME Server Services.
- Notifications components, including Topics, Subscriptions, and Publications.
- Security configuration, including Users, Roles, tokens, and Active Directory.
- Schedules.
- Job Queues.
- Resources, which include the following:
    - Resources whose definitions and files are both stored within FME Server, and are configured for migration. By default, the DATA, ENGINE, and DASHBOARD Resources are configured for migration. To determine if default resource folders are migrated, open the FME Server configuration file located at *C:\Program Files\FMEServer\Server\fmeServerConfig.txt*. Resources with a *SHAREDRESOURCE\_ISMIGRATABLE\_\** value of TRUE are migrated.
    - Online resources whose definitions are stored within FME Server, but whose files are stored outside FME Server. In the current version of FME Server, these resources are limited to any Amazon Web Service (AWS) S3 bucket connections and Network-based resources – for example, directories accessed via UNC. Only connection definitions are migrated (such as bucket names and authentication parameters). The files contained within these resources are not stored on FME Server.
- Database Connections and Web Connections.

Notably, the job logs cannot be migrated and must be manually backed up. The default location is C:\ProgramData\Safe Software\FME Server\resources\logs\.

---

<!--Tip Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-info-circle fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">WARNING</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
If <strong>Encryption</strong> is enabled on the FME Server that is backed up,
<br>it must also be enabled on the FME Server that is restored, and use the same custom encryption key. Ensure you have your <stromg>custom encryption key</stromg> downloaded and safely saved.</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

<!--Person X says...-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Sister Intuitive says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
Resource folders containing large amounts of data require considerable time to back up, and result in large configuration files. It is recommended that you define large folders as non-migratable. Following backup and restore, manually migrate these folders to the new FME Server. Alternatively, host big data on a UNC path, then point the new FME Server to that path.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

### Performing a Scheduled Backup of an FME Server Configuration ###

FME Server provides a workspace that you can configure to perform regular (scheduled) backups of your Server configuration to an FME Server configuration (.fsconfig) file. 

---

<!--Person X says...-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Miss Vector says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
How often can you schedule a backup of your FME Server configuration to occur?
<br><br>1. Once a year.
<br>2. Once a month.
<br>3. Once a week.
<br>4. Once a day.
<br>5. Once an hour.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
