# Projects #

Use the *Projects* page to bring together FME Server items into groups that share a common solution, or 'project,' in your organization. By grouping items in projects, you can reference them in one easy place. You can also export projects and import them to another instance of FME Server.

### What Can a Project Hold? ###

A project can include just about any FME Server object you create or upload, including:

- Workspaces, custom formats, custom transformers, and templates
- Repositories
- Schedules
- Topics, subscriptions, and publications
- Resources
- Resource Connections (currently includes any connections to Amazon Web Services (AWS) S3 buckets that appear on the *Resources* page)
- Cleanup Tasks
- Database connections and web connections
- Users
- Other projects

---

### Exporting and Importing a Project ###

You can export the contents of a project, and import the project to the same instance, or another instance, of FME Server. For example, you can migrate a project when you are ready to use it on a production server after you have developed and tested its contents on a separate system.

During export of any project you can choose the **Exclude Sensitive Information** option. If checked, and the project includes database or web Connections, their associated usernames and passwords are not included in the export.

During import of any project the following options are available:
  - Overwrite Existing Items (Notifications & Resources)
  - Pause Notification System (Publishers & Subscribers)
  - Disable Projects on Import (Schedules, System Cleanup Tasks, & User accounts)

For further information on Export and Importing Projects visit [Exporting and Importing Projects](http://docs.safe.com/fme/html/FME_Server_Documentation/Content/WebUI/Exporting-Importing-Projects.htm)

### Migrating Projects for Other Users (fmesuperuser only)

When you include users in a project, you can backup and restore a project for those users to work with on another system. Any permissions a user has on the current system are granted on the system to which the project is restored if both of the following conditions are true:

- The permission is on an item in the project.
- The permission was granted to the user directly, rather than through membership in a role.

Any other permissions a user has on the current system do not carry over.

### Viewing and Editing Projects ###

To view or edit a project, click on it to open the *Edit* page. Alternatively, select the project and click **Edit**. You can:

- Edit the project name and description.
- Add and remove items.
- Get information about items: Select an item under *Contents* and click the information icon to the far right for item details.

---

<!--miss vector Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Miss Vector says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
To add users to a project, you must belong to which role?
<br><br><a href="http://52.73.3.37/fmedatastreaming/Manual/QAResponse2017.fmw?chapter=29&question=2&answer=1&DestDataset_TEXTLINE=C%3A%5CFMEOutput%5CQAResponse.html">1. fmesuperuser.
<br><a href="http://52.73.3.37/fmedatastreaming/Manual/QAResponse2017.fmw?chapter=29&question=2&answer=2&DestDataset_TEXTLINE=C%3A%5CFMEOutput%5CQAResponse.html">2. fmeguest.
<br><a href="http://52.73.3.37/fmedatastreaming/Manual/QAResponse2017.fmw?chapter=29&question=2&answer=3&DestDataset_TEXTLINE=C%3A%5CFMEOutput%5CQAResponse.html">3. fmeauthor.
<br><a href="http://52.73.3.37/fmedatastreaming/Manual/QAResponse2017.fmw?chapter=29&question=2&answer=4&DestDataset_TEXTLINE=C%3A%5CFMEOutput%5CQAResponse.html">4. fmeuser.
<br><a href="http://52.73.3.37/fmedatastreaming/Manual/QAResponse2017.fmw?chapter=29&question=2&answer=5&DestDataset_TEXTLINE=C%3A%5CFMEOutput%5CQAResponse.html">5. Any user can add other users to a project.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---
