# Role- and User-Based Access #

FME Server security is based on two primary concepts:

- **Users**: Users are the individual accounts that access FME Server. When FME Server is installed for the first time, default user accounts are created.
- **Roles**: Roles are comprised of one or more users.

FME Server security controls access to resources either through role-based or user-based access.

## Role-Based Access ##

Roles make it easy to assign the same set of permissions to multiple users based on job function. Permissions to perform certain operations are assigned to specific roles. In turn, these permissions apply to the users who belong to that role.

For example, a request by user *user1* could be to run a workspace in the Samples repository for the Data Download Service. FME Server security grants access if any of the roles to which *user1* is assigned has permission to run workspaces in the Samples repository, and also has access to the Data Download Service.

A default set of roles is defined when FME Server is installed. These are:

- **fmesuperuser**: For users with unlimited access to the system, including Backup & Restore tasks.
- **fmeadmin**: For users who need to carry out specific administration tasks.
- **fmeauthor**: For users who are authoring workspaces to run on FME Server.
- **fmeuser**: For users who need to run (but not author) workspaces.
- **fmeguest**: For temporary users who need a minimal set of permissions.

---

<!--Police Chief Webb-Mapp Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Police Chief Webb-Mapp says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
I am the law! The </span><span style="font-family:serif; font-style:bold; font-size:larger"> FMESuperUser </span><span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">role is the high court of FME Server and is granted all permissions on all security settings. What’s more, these permissions cannot be revoked, unset, or appealed against!
<br>So, be sure not to assign accounts to the </span><span style="font-family:serif; font-style:bold; font-size:larger"> FMESuperUser </span><span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger"> role unless you really, really mean for them to be given that degree of power!
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

A number of default accounts are created too. These are:

- **admin**: Assigned to the fmesuperuser and fmeadmin roles.
- **author**: Assigned to the fmeauthor role.
- **user**: Assigned to the fmeuser role.
- **guest**: Assigned to the fmeguest role.

---

<!--Chef Bimm Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Chef Bimm says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
Don't forget, these are just default accounts that FME creates. You can create any role necessary for your system, assign any specific security settings to it, and create any number of users assigned to that role.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

On the *Roles* page of the Web User Interface, an administrator can:

- Create and remove roles.
- Configure users in roles.
- Configure permissions of roles.

## User-Based Access ##

Another way for FME Server to determine if a user can access a resource is whether the user owns it, or has been given permissions on it.

### User Ownership ###

Anything a user creates in FME Server, such as a repository, is owned by that user. When you own something, you have full permissions on it. This permission supersedes the permissions you have on other items in FME Server based on the role to which you belong.

Additionally, as an owner, you can:

- Share permissions on the items you own with other users or roles.
- Assign ownership of something to another user.

### User Permission ###

Users can be granted permissions on resources, and these permissions may supercede the permissions available to them through their role. (In fact, it is not even necessary for a user to belong to a role.)

On the *Users* page of the Web User Interface, an administrator can:

- Create and remove users.
- Configure users into roles.
- Configure permissions of users. 

---

<!--Sister Intuitve Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Sister Intuitive says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
On the </span><span style="font-family:serif; font-style:bold; font-size:larger">Active Directory </span><span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">page of the Web User Interface, an administrator can integrate the organization’s Active Directory users and groups into its FME Server security configuration.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

<!--Person X Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Miss Vector says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
If I want one user to have a higher level of access to other users in the same role (say I wish to let an FME author be able to manage engines) what must I do?
<br><br>1. Simply select that user from the user list and set the manage engine policy to yes
<br>2. Promote that role to superuser status so that the user has a higher level of security
<br>3. Create a new role with manage engines = yes and move that user to it
<br>4. Create a new role with manage engines = yes and add that user to it as well as the original role</span> 
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---