# Active Directory and FME Server #

FME Server allows you to connect to an existing Active Directory / LDAP server and incorporate available users and groups into your FME Server security configuration.

Once a connection is created, you can specify which user(s) and role(s) will be imported into FME Server - noting that their passwords and membership will continue to be managed by the Active Directory server itself. The existing users and roles on FME Server can coexist with those imported. FME Server roles can contain both System (FME Server) and Active Directory users.

Any number of Active Directory connections can be managed by FME Server - this means that you are able to connect to multiple domains.

---

<!--Person X Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">First-Officer Transformer says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
While you can import Active Directory Roles, you cannot modify membership in FME Server.<br>
FME Server only has read permission on any connected Active Directory listing.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## Integrated Windows Authentication ##

With Integrated Windows Authentication, also known as "single sign-on", you can enable the users you import from your Active Directory connections to integrate their Windows login credentials with FME Server. When single sign-on is enabled:

- There is no need to log in to the FME Server web interface. Instead, select **Use Windows Credentials** on the Sign In page.
- Similarly, there is no need to log in to FME Server when using FME Workbench to publish a workspace. Instead, simply check **Use Windows session credentials** in the *Publish to FME Server* wizard.

Note: When publishing a workspace to a Notification Service, you must still provide your FME Server credentials in the HTTP Authentication fields of the Edit Service Properties dialog of the wizard.

**To enable single sign-on**

1. [Update the Windows domain configuration](http://docs.safe.com/fme/html/FME_Server_Documentation/Content/AdminGuide/IWA_Update_Windows_Domain_Config.htm) to allow FME Server to authenticate using single sign-on.
2. [Update the web browser configuration](http://docs.safe.com/fme/html/FME_Server_Documentation/Content/AdminGuide/IWA_Update_Web_Browser_Config.htm) to use single sign-on.

