**Publications**

A Publication is a component that receives incoming notifications from a client.

To receive notification in FME Server a user must create a new Publication. A Publication is created in the FME Server Web User Interface under the Notifications section.

**Topics**

A Topic is a component that acts as a mediator for messages and defines the message content. Think of it as a subject line for notifications.

Like Publications, a Topic is created in the FME Server Web User Interface, under the Notifications section.

All Publications are linked to one (or more) Topics, so that when an incoming message is received it is categorized and the related Topic is triggered.

Because a Publication can be linked to multiple Topics, each incoming message can trigger multiple actions to occur. Additionally, multiple Publications can trigger the same topic.

For example, a lightning strike sensor might publish to the topics WeatherEvent and AircraftAlerts, whereas a flood sensor might publish to the topics WeatherEvent and RoadConditions.

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Daily Interop Reporter, Chad Pugh-Litzer says…</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
“It’s like when I write a news article. I publish the article to the Daily
Interop web site, tagged with a number of topics to describe it.
For example, a report about a soccer team’s tax return would be filed
under both ‘Financial’ and ‘Sports’ because it relates to both.”
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>