**Subscriptions**

A Subscription is a component that sends outgoing notifications to a client.

To send a notification in FME Server a user must create a new Subscription.

A Subscription is created in the FME Server web interface under the Notifications section.

As with Publications, each Subscription is also tied to one (or more) Topics, and each Topic can be subscribed to by multiple Subscriptions.

For example, a police headquarters might subscribe to the RoadConditions topic, to receive notifications on that subject. The local TV weather channel also subscribes to the RoadConditions topics, but in addition subscribes to WeatherEvent to hear about those particular events.

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">InteropGeek68 says…</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
“I subscribe to articles published on the Daily Interop web site
according to their topic.
For example, I subscribe to reports on technology and gaming,
whereas my friend – InteropJock72 – subscribes to sports articles”
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">IMPORTANT</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
This is text as spoken by a person from the city of Interopolis
<br>Although the actions seem odd in regard to the name – Publications receive
messages, Subscriptions send them – it is correct. The name refers to the Client, not
the Server.
So FME Server receives a Publication because the client is publishing it.
Likewise, FME Server sends a Subscription because the client is subscribing to it.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>