## Available Protocols ##

Email and FME Workspace protocols are among the most popular in FME Server, and they are covered in detail in the next few sections. Some other commonly used protocols are:

---

### Watch Triggers ###

There are several watch triggers:
**Directory Watch** and **FTP Watch** are the two most common but other watch services include Amazon S3 buckets and Dropbox directories.

These are trigger-only protocols that monitor folders and FTP sites for any changes, the primary use case being when new files are added whether that new files to be added, or existing files modified and deleted. When a file appears in that directory the trigger message is parsed as JSON and contains the affected file path value.

A common use is for monitoring a folder in which datasets are stored. When a new dataset is placed into the folder, then a workspace can automatically run to process it.

This protocol allows files to be filtered by the action type so that it is not just the creation of a new file that can be monitored. It's also possible to monitor for existing file deletions and modifications.

Some of these watch triggers have corresponding Actions whereby FME Server can push files out to that file storage location. 

---

### Mobile Actions ###

Mobile Notifications are Action-only protocols that send messages to mobile devices. The two protocols available are **Apple Push Notification** and **Google Cloud Messaging**.

#### Apple Devices ####

The Apple Push Action allows delivery of messages to an Apple iOS device, like an iPhone.
Messages are sent from FME Server to the device via a cloud service called the Apple Push Notification service (APNs).

The FME Server Reference Manual explains how to set up such a notification and what is required regarding Apple “SSL Keystore” and device tokens.

#### Android Devices ####

Google Cloud Messaging is the Android equivalent to Apple notifications. Again, they involve sending content to a mobile device from an FME Server Action.

---

### Amazon Triggers/Actions ###

FME Server Automations support several Amazon protocols. SNS and SQS are two types of notification systems. FME Server is capable of pushing messages to both of them and receiving messages from both of them. The difference (if you are interested) is that SNS pushes messages to Triggers immediately, whereas SQS stores the messages in a queue until the Trigger fetches them.

Amazon S3 is an online file storage service. It can be either a Trigger or Action in FME Server; i.e., FME can be notified to read from S3 "buckets" and can issue a notification in the form of writing to an S3 bucket. The S3 Trigger is a "Watch" type notification.

---

### WebSocket Notifications ###

A WebSocket is a TCP-based line of communication. FME Server can accept and send messages from/to another WebSocket client. WebSocket protocols are supported by most web browsers, meaning any web application can communicate to FME Server and FME Server can send notifications (even small quantities of data) directly to any web browser.
