**SMTP Publications**

SMTP Publications are when data is published to FME Server via a direct email. FME Server receives an email and triggers a Topic in response.

**Setting up an Email Publication**

Creating an SMTP publication is done in the Notifications section of the Web User Interface, by choosing the Email (SMTP) protocol for a new Publication.

Once the protocol type is selected, the publication must also be given a name and an existing topic chosen to be triggered.

The final parameter is the Email User Name; in this example it is set up to be RoadInfo.

Notice the author is suffixing the publication and topic names with _Incoming so that there is no confusion over which topics are being used for incoming notification and which ones for outgoing.

Now, whenever an email is sent to RoadInfo@serverhost.com – for example someone is sending an email to report snow on the road – the RoadConditions_Incoming topic is triggered.

**Setting up the Email Server**

SMTP email publications are possible because FME Server includes an in-built email server as one of its components. However, this does require that the server has a domain name registered with a DNS name server.

The steps to set up the email server for notifications are documented in the FME Server Reference Manual, and also in the following exercise.

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Sister Intuitive says …</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
“FME Cloud instances are automatically configured for email
notification, and have a public domain name too, so you don’t need
to do any additional setup.”
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>