**Email Subscriptions**

Email Subscriptions are when FME Server sends an email in response to a Topic. The in-built mail server in FME Server is only for incoming mail, and so messages need to be sent via an existing SMTP email server.

**Setting up an Email Subscription**

Creating an Email subscription is done in the Notifications section of the Web User Interface, by choosing the email protocol for a new Subscription.

Here, for example, the author has chosen the Email protocol for a new Subscription.

The Subscription is given a name and an existing topic chosen to be triggered.

There are many more parameters for outgoing mail because the full SMTP server connection parameters need to be defined.

Now when the RoadConditions_Out topic is triggered, an email is sent to recipient@example.com

However, the various fields for the email itself (From, To, Subject, Template) do not need to be hardcoded and can be passed through to the Subscription from a workspace.

One other important parameter is the Email Format.
This can either be plain text or HTML.

**Workspaces as a Publication**

When a workspace acts as a Publication, it triggers a topic when it is run.

In effect, the workspace is publishing to that topic.

In this case the message is constructed in the workspace and passed onto the Subscription.

Publishing notification messages from FME is useful for both sending messages containing content from the data being processed, and for reporting the status of a translation, such as whether it has run successfully or ended in a failure.

**Message Content**

The ability to construct message content from a variety of sources – including spatial – is a key reason for using FME workspaces as a publisher. Workspaces can transform data in multiple ways, use it to construct a message, and then dispatch that message to users as a notification.

Content is sent from a workspace by a Writer.

When the workspace is run the notification message is constructed as an attribute and sent to a Writer feature type. The output from that feature type is used by the notification service as the content of the publication.

**Content Format**

For the purposes of FME notifications, the content of a workspace publication can be in any format. It does not necessarily need to be either JSON or XML, though obviously it would have to be if any client who subscribes to the notifications requires it in that format.

For example, here a workspace constructs a plain-text weather (lightning) alert using an AttributeCreator:

Now the message attribute is connected to a Text File Writer in order to provide a means for publishing the outgoing message.

**Registering a Workspace**

Setting up a workspace to communicate notifications is achieved when the workspace is published to FME Server.

Notifications are sent once the workspace is complete. The way in which the workspace is run is not important. Notifications can be sent for workspaces run using the Job Submitter Service, or the Data Download Service, or any other service.

In other words, a workspace that sends notifications doesn’t need to be published to the Notification service; it should be published to the service under which it is to be run. Under the properties for that service will be parameters for setting the notification.

In this example the author is publishing a workspace to the Job Submitter service and has opened the properties dialog for that service. There are two parameters for controlling the topics – one for success and one for failure – and a parameter for specifying the Writer to use.

Having two Topic parameters is useful because different notifications can be sent depending on whether the workspace succeeds or fails.

In this case, when the workspace runs to completion it will trigger the RoadConditions_Out topic.
If the workspace fails to complete, it will trigger the WorkspaceFail topic.

Either way, the outgoing message is set to be output via a TextLine Writer defined in the workspace.

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Ms. Analyst says…</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
“Four Topics are pre-installed with FME Server to handle
workspace notifications. There are two topics for the Job
Submitter Service (one for success, one for failure) and two for the
Data Download Service (again, one for success, one for failure).
These topics are triggered automatically by FME Server so a
system administrator – for example – could subscribe to these
topics to receive notifications from all workspaces”
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

**Handling Email Subscriptions in a Workspace**

As previously described, content being sent to a notification will be passed out of the workspace using a Writer, usually a plain text Writer that is passed the message in an attribute.

Therefore, to create the content requires only the construction of the attribute with transformers.

For a JSON email you would construct an attribute like this:

{
"email_to" : "notifications@enduser.com",
"email_cc" : "",
"email_from" : "notifications@fmeserver.com",
"email_replyto" : "",
"email_subject" : "Notification Subject",
"subscriber_content" : "Notification Content"
}

This could be created using an AttributeCreator transformer, where the email addresses and content can be substituted as required, and would look like this:

If the Email format is set to HTML in the Notification GUI, then the email content could be constructed as HTML too, for example:

The workspace in such a case might look like this:

**Publishing with a Transformer**

Instead of using a Writer and sending a notification at its completion, a workspace can send a notification through a special transformer called the FMEServerNotifier.

This workspace will trigger the notification wherever it is run.

Notification properties are set in the transformer parameters dialogs (it is a wizard composed of two panes)

The transformer parameters include those for connecting to FME Server, and ones for the topic to post to and the message to be included.
Here the author intends to publish the contents of an attribute called text_line_data to a topic called RoadConditionReports_Out

There are two advantages to issuing a notification this way, over using a Writer:

- The workspace can issue a notification during a translation, rather than at the end of it.

- The workspace does not need to be run on FME Server to generate an FME Server notification. It will produce the same notification when run using FME Desktop.

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Aunt Interop says…</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
“If you only want to trigger the notification once, then add a
Sampler transformer before the FMEServerNotifier and set it up to
filter out all but one feature.
Otherwise a notification is triggered for every feature!”
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

**Workspaces as a Subscription AND a Publication**

A system that needs to both receive and send notifications looks like this:

In this scenario the same workspace receives an incoming notification sends an outgoing notification. It is registered with the notification service (in order to receive incoming notifications) and the notification parameters set on a different service (in order to send outgoing notifications).

For example, details of a lightning strike are received via a LightningStrike topic. The workspace then processes the information – for example it determines which state/province/county the strike occurred in – creates a new message and dispatches it to subscribers via a WeatherAlert topic.

The important thing to notice is that the scenario involves two different topics, here Topic I and Topic II.

A major problem occurs if you set up such a scenario but only use one topic.

That’s because for every notification the workspace receives it will publish back to the same topic, triggering itself again and causing an infinite loop of messages.


<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">Daily Interop Reporter, Cha d Pugh-Litzer says …</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
“Using the same topic for incoming and outgoing notifications is
like setting up your email to forward all incoming messages to
yourself. You’ll end up with a loop that continues until you crash
the email system!
To avoid confusion it’s a good idea to clarify which topics are for
in and out communication through their names. For example, use
LighningStrike_In and LightningStrike_Out to differentiate topics
that are triggered by incoming alerts and those triggered by
outgoing alerts”
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>