# Deconstructing the Log File #

The following sections examine in more detail each part of an FME log file.

<!--Person X Says Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">FME Lizard says...</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
The overall structure of an FME log is approximately four different sections.
<br><br>
<li>Command-line statement</li>
<li>Configuration and setup information</li>
<li>The translation and transformation itself</li>
<li>A summary of the translation</li>
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>


## Command Line Statement ##

At the very top of a log file appears the command line statement. This is the command that FME Workbench is using to run the translation:

<pre>
Command-line to run this workspace:
    "C:\Program Files\FME2019\fme.exe" C:\FMEData2019\Workspaces\InstructorUse\DesktopAdv\4.01-FMEParameters.fmw
          --SourceDataset_MITAB "C:\FMEData2019\Data\Parks\Parks.tab"
          --DestDataset_ESRISHAPE "C:\FMEData2019\Output"
</pre>

In terms of performance, this section doesn’t tell us much. However, it is useful to confirm which FME instance is running, particularly when you have several versions installed. Note that the version number in the above log is the folder where FME is installed; it's not necessarily the version number that's running.

This section also tells us what published parameters are in the workspace and what their values are. 

Perhaps the most useful part of this section is that you can copy and paste this statement to run the workspace through a command line or using a batch file.
