<!-- Copied from basic due to new functionality-->
#Feature Caching

Sometimes it is important to inspect data at any step of the translation. Adding an Inspector transformer at ever step would be tiresome, so instead FME has an option to cache data automatically. 

This behaviour is activated using Run > Run with Data Caching on the menubar:

<!-- Screenshot-->

With this option active, FME generates caches at every step of the translation when the workspace is run:

<!-- screenshot--> 

The caches are indicated by small icons on each object. In the above screenshot the caches are green, but they can change to yellow or red depending on how fresh the data is. 

---

<!--New Section--> 

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-bolt fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">NEW</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
Run with Data Caching is essentially the same as Run with Full Inspection in prior versions of FME. It has been renamed in FME2018 to better match new functionality that takes advantage of these caches.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

##Inspecting Cached Data

Cached data can be inspected by simply clicking on the icon on a particular object. 

<!-- Screenshot-->

---

##Saving Caches 

Caches can be saved with the workspace so work can continue later without having to re-run the entire workspace. This can be done by saving the workspace as a template file. 

This is done by going to File > Save As Template... on the menu bar:

<!-- screenshot-->

Then when saving the template file, enabling Include Feature Caches: 

<!-- screenshot -->

This way when the workspace is opened by anyone using FME2018 the caches are saved and the workspace can be run at any point. 

---

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-info-circle fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">TIP</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
It's certainly quicker to set up "Run with Data Caching" than to manually add Inspector transformers. However, be aware that caching data obviously causes the translation to be slower, and to use system resources such as disk space. 
<br><br>
<br><br>Data caching is very useful while developing a workspace, but should be turned off before putting a workspace into production.
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>


