## Translation and Transformation Statements ##

The main body of the FME log concerns the translation and transformation of data. The contents of this section vary according to the actions being carried out and the transformers used. 

However, there are several key messages common to all translations...

---

### Key Messages ###

The first key message is simply "Emptying Factory Pipeline":

---

<pre>
Emptying factory pipeline
</pre>

This message signifies that reading of data is at an end, and all readers are closed. Because of how FME processes data, this message may appear near the beginning of a translation or near the end. It may even appear after transformation and writing has commenced!

By checking the timestamp for this message, you can get an approximate value for how long the workspace took to read the source data.

---

<pre>
Unexpected Input Remover
</pre>

This message denotes where features read by a reader are tested against the available feature types (and merge filters) to see if they are allowed to pass into the workspace. 

This message may indicate a performance issue as it highlights potentially unnecessary work, where features are being read but not used in the translation.

---

<pre>
ResourceManager: Optimizing Memory Usage. Please wait...
</pre>

This message alerts you to the fact that some reorganization of memory usage is going on. For example, maybe the memory management limits mentioned in the configuration part of the log have been reached, and FME is having to work around the issue.

If you see this message frequently, then it’s time to either redesign your translation or switch to a 64-bit setup. It is a key indicator that a lack of memory is affecting performance.

---

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-quote-left fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">FME Lizard says…</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
How would you find the Emptying Factory Pipeline setting in the log window?
<br><br><a href="http://52.73.3.37/fmedatastreaming/Manual/QAResponse2017.fmw?chapter=12&question=2&answer=1&DestDataset_TEXTLINE=C%3A%5CFMEOutput%5CQAResponse.html">1. Looking for the color: it is the only message highlighted in red</a>
<br><a href="http://52.73.3.37/fmedatastreaming/Manual/QAResponse2017.fmw?chapter=12&question=2&answer=2&DestDataset_TEXTLINE=C%3A%5CFMEOutput%5CQAResponse.html">2. Looking for the message type: it is the first message of type STATS</a>
<br><a href="http://52.73.3.37/fmedatastreaming/Manual/QAResponse2017.fmw?chapter=12&question=2&answer=3&DestDataset_TEXTLINE=C%3A%5CFMEOutput%5CQAResponse.html">3. By using the log search tools</a>
<br><a href="http://52.73.3.37/fmedatastreaming/Manual/QAResponse2017.fmw?chapter=12&question=2&answer=4&DestDataset_TEXTLINE=C%3A%5CFMEOutput%5CQAResponse.html">4. By opening Tools > FME Options to turn off all other messages</a>
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
