<!--Exercise Section-->


<table style="border-spacing: 0px;border-collapse: collapse;font-family:serif">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-cogs fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold">Exercise 2</span>
</td>
<!--AKA What Does the Log Say?-->
<td style="border: 2px solid darkorange;background-color:darkorange;color:white">
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold">Public Art in Parks - Feature Caching</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Data</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">City Neighborhoods (Google KML)<br>Public Art (Microsoft Excel)<br>
Parks (MapInfo Tab)<br>
City Orthophotos (GeoTIFF)</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Overall Goal</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">Examine a workspace that analyzes public art in city parks</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Demonstrates</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">Analyzing Performance</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Start Workspace</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">C:\FMEData2019\Workspaces\DesktopAdvanced\WorkspaceDesign-Ex2-Begin.fmw</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">End Workspace</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">None</td>
</tr>

</table>

As you'll recall, the provincial government has given the city a grant to fund new public art in parks. 

A colleague has created a workspace to analyze the amount of art in each city park and we are carrying out a code review to ensure that the workspace is efficient and well-designed.

---

<br>**1) Open and Run Workspace**
<br>Open your workspace from the previous exercise, or the workspace listed above. Previously we ran the workspace with caching turned on and it took about twenty seconds to run.

Now - to test production performance - turn off feature caching. There are no Inspector or Logger transformers, and no parts are disabled. So simply re-run the workspace.

You should find that the workspace runs a lot more quickly this time - perhaps in as little as five seconds:

<pre>
Translation was SUCCESSFUL with 2 warning(s) (70 feature(s) output)
FME Session Duration: 4.8 seconds. (CPU: 3.3s user, 1.2s system)
END - ProcessID: 2524, peak process memory usage: 452260 kB, current process memory usage: 146324 kB
</pre>


This clearly shows the performance reduction that caching can cause. This is particularly true in a workspace processing large raster datasets. Caching shouldn't be required in a production workspace because the authoring and debugging phases of development should be complete.


<br>**2) Assess Relative Performance**
<br>Although the workspace now runs very quickly, we could assess the relative performance of each section anyway.

Firstly disable all components after the readers, and run the workspace. Make a note of the time the workspace now takes to run:

<pre>
Translation was SUCCESSFUL with 1 warning(s) (0 feature(s) output)
FME Session Duration: 1.4 seconds. (CPU: 1.0s user, 0.3s system)
END - ProcessID: 7148, peak process memory usage: 116928 kB, current process memory usage: 107228 kB
</pre>

Now enable all transformers, leaving only the writers disabled. Re-run the workspace and make a note of the performance:

<pre>
Translation was SUCCESSFUL with 2 warning(s) (0 feature(s) output)
FME Session Duration: 1.7 seconds. (CPU: 1.1s user, 0.4s system)
END - ProcessID: 1436, peak process memory usage: 146044 kB, current process memory usage: 142124 kB
</pre>

From this we know that:

- Reading data takes 1.4 seconds (the first partial run)
- Transforming data takes 0.3 seconds (the second partial run minus the first partial run)
- Writing data takes 3.1 seconds (the overall run minus the second partial run)

So writing data takes the longest in this workspace, although the workspace isn't really that slow anyway.

Still, in the next exercise we'll go on and see what we can change in the workspace to make it more efficient.

---

<!--Exercise Congratulations Section--> 

<table style="border-spacing: 0px">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-thumbs-o-up fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold;font-family:serif">CONGRATULATIONS</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">
<span style="font-family:serif; font-style:italic; font-size:larger">
By completing this exercise, you have learned how to:
<ul><li>Discover the performance liabilities of feature caching</li>
<li>Analyze a workspace for relative performance of different sections</li></ul>
</span>
</td>
</tr>
</table>