# Course Overview #

This training material covers how to install and administer FME Server.

The training will introduce the techniques and information required to efficiently manage FME Server and to troubleshoot any problems that might arise.

## Prerequisites ##

This course assumes experience with FME Server. It is recommended to have completed the FME Server Authoring Course, and at least the Getting Started with FME Desktop and FME Server tutorials. Completion of the FME Desktop Basic and Advanced courses are suggested, though not necessary, to gain an understanding of the basic concepts and practices for FME. Knowledge of enterprise level security and IT configurations is helpful, but not required.


## Course Structure ##

The full course is made up of seven sections. These sections are:

- Planning an FME Server Installation
- FME Server Connectivity
- FME Server Security
- Migration and Upgrades
- Scalability and Performance
- FME Server Customization
- Troubleshooting

The instructor may choose to cover as many of these sections as they feel are required, or possible in the time permitted. They may also cover the course content in a different order and will skip or add new content to better customize the course to your needs.

Therefore the length and content of the course may vary, particularly when delivered online.


## About the Manual ##
The FME Server administration training manual not only forms the basis for FME Server training – in-person or online – but is also useful reference material for future work you may undertake with FME.

This training material is designed specifically for use with FME2017. You may not have some of the functionality described if you use an older version of FME.


## Note to Instructors##
This training manual requires additional configuration and support of third-party software to complete the exercises as they are written.

- **Configuring for Active Directory:** To complete this exercise, training machines need to belong to a domain network and have access to Active Directory listings. Domain credentials must be provided in order to access Active Directory listings.
- **Changing the FME Server Database Provider:** To complete this exercise, training machines must have access to an external database where the schema for the FME Server database can be configured. A local installation of PostgreSQL is used in this exercise, but Oracle or Microsoft SQL Server are alternatives. The database *does not* have to be local.
- **Web Connections:** To complete this exercise, a third-party web service with OAuth 2.0 authentication must be used. Dropbox is used in this exercise, but there are many other options. The web service *does not* need to have transformers available in FME – it is possible to leverage the HTTPCaller transformer for this purpose. It will be necessary to share Client Id and Client Secret credentials in order to configure the web service in FME Server.
