## Sharing Custom Resources with FME Engine##

As an FME Author you may create workspaces that require additional references to files not installed with FME as part of the standard library, in which case these files will need to be uploaded to FME Server and placed in a specific location for the FME Engine to have access to these. This process is separate from pushing up source datasets and may require involvement from your FME Server Administrator.


### Sharing Custom Formats and Transformers ###

There are three ways to upload custom resources to FME Server:
1. Upload to the Resources page in the FME Server Web UI under the appropriate subdirectory in the engine folder. This will make the resource accessible by all workspaces on FME Server.
2. Publish the custom format/transformer .fmx to FME Server. It will be available to all Workspaces stored in the same repository that it is published.
3. Publish along with publishing a workspace. Specifying one of the two locations listed above depending on who you would like to give access to this format.

### Configuring Grid Transformation Definitions ###

In order to reproject between coordinate systems using different datums, if they are not mathematically definable FME relies on Grid Shift files to define the required transformation. It is possible in FME Workbench to not only maintain existing Grid Shift Files but also add new files for transformations where Safe Software has not been able to provide the file.

Under these circumstances there are two steps required to make this file accessible to the workspace on FME Server. First you must upload the file to FME Server Resources > engine > CoordinateSystemGridOverrides.  Second you must ensure the grid override file references a fully qualified path pointing to this Folder in FME Server.

### Using Python with FME Server ###

When using Python with FME Server there are two possible scenarios an FME author should be aware of that may prevent the workspace from running as expected:


1. If you run workspaces from FME Server that reference Python, the FME Engines must know which Python interpreter to use. The Python interpreter that the FME Engines use is the one that most closely matches the Python Compatibility workspace parameter.

2. When Using Additional Python Modules not shipped as a part of the standard library it is necessary to upload this Python module to FME Server Resources under engine > Plugins > Python.

### Using R with FME Server ###

Similar to using Python with FME Server there are some addition steps needed to execute R scripts in a workspace running on FME Server:

1. Install R
2. Install the sqldf package for R
3. Upload the package libraries to FME Server under Resources > engine > plugins > R

Steps 1 and 2 must be performed on all machines that run FME Engines.
