# Data Uploads

A Data Upload system is one where a user provides data to FME Server for it to process.

Data Upload can be used from any FME Server client, including:

- The FME Server web interface
- An FME workspace
- A custom web application

Data Upload is often used for submitting data to an organization; for example a property developer submits a planning application containing a DWG dataset to a municipal planning department.

It is also often used for publishing data to be processed on FME Server; for example FME Server is set up as a data validation web service and an end-user uploads a set of data to be checked.

It’s worth noting that data upload also includes not just data, but other resources that may be required for a translation to run; for example custom transformers or text-file lookup tables may also be uploaded.


## Implementing Data Upload ##

On FME Server there are two ways to upload data. There is a specific Data Upload Service and there is also the Resources filesystem.

The Data Upload Service uploads data to a particular workspace in a particular repository. The data is held temporarily for the workspace to be run.

The Resources filesystem allows data to be uploaded to a folder for use by any workspace in any repository. This upload is persistent and the data held there for as long as it required.

When creating a customized solution that involves data upload, the developer can choose whether to use to Data Upload service or whether to use the Resources filesystem instead.