# Questions #

<quiz>
    <question multiple>
        <p>For each of these scenarios, tell me if it is a Data Download project, Data Upload, both, or neither.</p>
        <answer>The user logs on to a web page, draws an area on the map, and is sent a copy of the data within that area</answer>
        <answer>The user submits a dataset to a web site that scans the data for errors, and returns a corrected copy</answer>
        <answer>The user publishes a workspace that writes data to the user's account in an online PostGIS database</answer>
        <answer>The user starts a GIS application, clicks File > Add Data to Map, and pastes in a URL from FME Server</answer>
        <explanation>#1 is a simple download of data. #2 is obviously both. #3 is neither. Publishing a workspace is not Data Upload and writing to a database is not Data Download. #4 would be a special type of Data Download. In FME we call it Data Streaming; the workspace runs and the output is sent directly to the application that requested it.</explanation>
    </question>
    <question multiple>
        <p>When a workspace is not registered against any service, how can you run it? Select all that apply.</p>
        <answer correct>With the FMEServerJobSubmitter transformer</answer>
        <answer>With the run dialog in the web interface</answer>
        <answer>With the URL specified under Developer Information in the run dialog</answer>
        <answer correct>By setting it to run under a schedule</answer>
        <explanation>You cannot run the workspace in the web interface (the run button won't work unless services are available) or with a URL (none will be provided).</explanation>
    </question>
    <question multiple>
        <p>When a workspace is registered against the Data Download service (and no other), how can you run it? Select all that apply.</p>
        <answer correct>With the FMEServerJobSubmitter transformer</answer>
        <answer correct>With the run dialog in the web interface</answer>
        <answer correct> With the URL specified under Developer Information in the run dialog</answer>
        <answer correct>By setting it to run under a schedule</answer>
        <explanation>It will actually run under all of these tools. Of course, only the web dialog and the URL return a zip file for download. The others just output the data to the specified workspace location.</explanation>
    </question>
    <question multiple>
        <p>Why is the FeatureReader the preferred option [for filtering data in a self-serve system]? Pick all the reasons that apply:</p>
        <answer correct>It can be quicker and more resource efficient</answer>
        <answer>It allows multiple areas to be used as the existing areas</answer>
        <answer> It works with raster data</answer>
        <answer correct> It has more choices for spatial filtering</answer>
        <explanation>The FeatureReader is more efficient where the source dataset is a format that has a spatial index, because it won't have to read all of the source data. It also has more filtering choices than a Clipper transformer (though not a SpatialFilter)
        <br>The FeatureReader does allow multiple areas to be used, and it does support raster data - however so does the Clipper transformer, so there is no difference between the two in those scenarios. Additionally, the two are equivalent in performance where there is no spatial index (i.e. both will need to read the full dataset)</explanation>
    </question>
    <question multiple>
        <p>How well do you know the types of FME published parameters? Decide which of the following are real parameters</p>
        <answer correct>Color</answer>
        <answer>Double</answer>
        <answer correct>Password</answer>
        <answer correct>Text (Multiline)</answer>
        <explanation>There are over 25 types of published parameters.</explanation>
    </question>
    <question multiple>
        <p>If the Generic Writer parameter is published to determine what format to write data in a data download system, what would the Generic Reader parameter be used for?</p>
        <answer>To determine what format of data to read in a Data Download system</answer>
        <answer correct>To determine what format of data to read in a Data Upload system</answer>
        <answer>To determine the correct Styler transformer to use in the workspace</answer>
        <answer>To determine whether I'm connected to a Data Upload or a Data Download system</answer>
        <explanation>Right, I'm uploading some data and I'm going to tell FME Server what format it is. Why would I care (#1) about what format of data is being read in a Data Download system (and how could I tell)? Similarly (#3) it's the output format that determines which Styler to use, not the input format. #4 is just plain nonsense!</explanation>
    </question>
</quiz>
