<table style="border-spacing: 0px;border-collapse: collapse;font-family:serif">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-cogs fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold">Exercise 3G </span>
</td>
<td style="border: 2px solid darkorange;background-color:darkorange;color:white">
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold">Data
Streaming</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Scenario</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">Airphoto Data Vendor</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Data</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">GeoTiff Orthophotos</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Overall Goal</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">Create
a
Data
Streaming
Service</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Demonstrates</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">Data
Streaming</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Starting Workspace</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">C:\FMEData2015\Workspaces\ServerAuthoring\Exercise3g-­‐Begin-­‐
DataStreaming.fmw</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Finished Workspace</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">C:\FMEData2015\Workspaces\ServerAuthoring\Exercise3g-­‐Complete-­‐
DataStreaming.fmw</td>
</tr>

</table>

Any exercises we’ve completed up until now could also be used with a simple Data Streaming service, just as easily as a Data Download service, and with very little editing.

This would allow customers to preview their downloads in a browser.

**1. Open Starting Workspace**

Start Workbench and open the starting workspace. Alternatively open the workspace from any of the previous exercises.

**2. Add Writer**

For data streaming it’s important that we have a workspace with a JPEG writer, not Generic.
Even if the Generic writer writes a JPEG file, it can’t be streamed because the MIME type is unknown.

So, use Writers > Add Writer from the menubar. When prompted add a Writer as follows:

Writer Format JPEG (Joint Photographic Experts Group)

Writer Dataset C:\FMEData2015\Output\Training

Ensure Copy from Reader file definition is selected. Click OK to close the dialog. Open the Feature Type Properties dialog, change the Raster File Name to AirphotoPreview, and make sure that the fanout option is unchecked.

Click the Format Parameters tab and check the parameter for World File Generation. It needs to be set to “No”. If it is not “No” then multiple files will be output and streaming will fail.

**3. Publish the Workspace to the Data Streaming Service**

Connect the newly created Feature Type to the RasterMosaicker Output port. Then select File > Publish to FME Server from the menubar to publish the workspace.

Save the workspace (as Exercise3g.fmw) and publish it to the Training repository again; but this time, register it with both the Data Download and Data Streaming services.

For the Data Download service, click the Edit button to make sure the Output Dataset associated with the service is the Generic Writer.

For the Data Streaming service, click the Edit button to make sure the Output Dataset associated with the service is the JPEG Writer, and only the JPEG writer.

**4. Run the Workspace in the Data Streaming Service**

Acting as a user now, go to the Web User Interface and navigate to your workspace: Workspaces > Training > Exercise3g.fmw > Data Streaming

Enter some parameters. Data Download specific parameters like destination coordinate system and output format will not apply when streaming.

Click Run Workspace on the bottom of the form.

After a short time, the resulting image will appear on the webpage. Your browser automatically displays the image because FME Server provided the MIME type image/jpeg in the headers of the page it returned.

Hopefully you see how this service could be incorporated into your self-server data sharing solution, so users can preview the data they want to download at lower resolutions first.

Congratulations! You have now created a Data Streaming service for your customers.